this is Janice Bernstein and this is for
the national satellite broadcast on the
collapse of banking SNL's all right P
Brut and thank you for joining us on
this radio special you are the author of
a new book the Mafia the CIA and George
Bush should be released very shortly
Anshe Polsky actually it will have been
released by the time this radio
broadcast airs over a period of several
years at the Easton Post you wrote a
multi-part series that began to unfold
the relationship between the CIA
organized crime and federally-insured
SNL's and banking institutions in your
investigation you began to link powerful
US officials used in based officials
officials around the country some
members of the corporate elite in this
country to illegal activities that were
related to organized crime activities
and so on and so forth and CIA covert
actions some the illegal covert actions
that were carried out under the guise of
national security you new book the Mafia
of the CIA and George Bush picks up
essentially where the Euston post
articles dropped off or enhances on some
of them and then takes them further and
I want to start there with you on where
you left off on that investigation and I
want to have you talk a little bit about
some of the key people that you
mentioned we're talking about some very
powerful people and the title of your
book is George Bush he is now as people
know the President of the United States
is currently running for a second term
in your book people like James Baker are
mentioned involved in some pretty
serious activities if what you say and
have documented is true you talk about
perhaps names that people wouldn't know
but are very powerful people in Houston
and around the country people like
Walter Mischer and we were going to talk
a lot about Walter Misha because he
plays a central role in your book and
some of the activities that we've
described but before we do that
I think for the people who are just
coming into the story now I'd like you
to give an overview on exactly what it
is that you wrote about what what is the
macro picture what is the story you tell
without the names before we get into the
specifics we were just trying to figure
out one one hundred million dollar deal
at a fail savings on Houston has gone
bad and we were just trying to find out
how much money was involved and how much
money to save his alone lost and where
the money went and all of a sudden were
running into incredible brick walls we
can't find out who was involved we can't
find out how much money the savings of
mom lent we can't find out where the
money went
everybody's stonewalling the FBI didn't
know what's going on federal regulators
didn't know what's going on nobody would
talk to us finally when we talked to the
chairman of the board of this savings
alone which was mainland savings which
failed in April of 86 at the time I
failed it was the largest failed S&L in
the country we had a billion dollars in
assets and Raymond Hill in our
conversation our interview with him
would not tell us what was going on and
tried to give us some some nonsense
stuff about why savings of on failed and
what was going on with the engines was
the CEO yes so he's chair of the board
and the CEO and we kept trying to push
him to answer our questions this 100
million dollar deal involved some
apartments indicators from New York City
we thought that was kind of strange that
they would be down in Texas dealing with
medium sized savings alone and he'll
would not answer our questions and
eventually it became quite belligerent
and arrogant in fact in all my dealings
with was people in the news business and
in the public Raymond Hill was probably
most arrogant person I've ever
encountered
more so than any public official I've
ever done
one thing you know that told me
something's going on this was a this was
something big I mean all the stone walls
this guy's attitude people from New York
City 100 million dollars you know
something big was going on in that you
know made me really get into the story
and I had covered government affairs for
a long time in Houston and and in
Houston government exists to benefit
private people I mean that's the main
that's what they in there for to and you
eventually discover this when you cover
it long enough you realize that all the
stuff that's going on in the surface is
not what's really happening that that
they're trying to lie in their own
pockets and everything else is just kind
of smoke screaming and smoke and mirrors
and so if the important thing in the in
tracking of fail savings alone is to
find out where the money went
just like in covering any any
investigative story any government story
you know what happened to the money who
got it who benefited and we couldn't
find this now I mean it was it was
extremely difficult and everybody else
that jumped in investigating the SNL
story couldn't either and most of them
stopped trying and went to other kinds
of stories like the personalities
involved the big borrowers and the the
owners the you know Charles Keating's
and the Don Dixon ISM these people and
when you start really tracking the money
you find out that these people were just
frontman middleman they got one or two
percent and that was it they did not get
the bulk of the money and when you start
finding out who did that leads to
entirely new cannon ball game I mean you
really get into the power structure and
the power brokers of this country all
right let's talk about the ball game
before we get into the players in that
game what is the game that was being
played that you discovered well tell you
what I think was going on I think that
people in very powerful positions mostly
in financial institutions like banks
that could see what was going on with
savings and loans realize that savings
and loans were not gonna survive where
we're gonna have a very hard time
surviving in the early 80s and I think
they just decided to take them down
savings and loans existed to finance
homes for middle America and so banks
had very little use for banks and
insurance companies another thing I had
very little use for savings alone I
didn't like them they were competing
with for deposits with them and they
were doing something they were financing
middle Americas homes you know the banks
you know like to lend to their friends
and this wasn't helping their friends at
all and so I think banks the people
around makes you know we're really
warning the savings and loans to be
taken down and deregulation for whatever
reason it was passed and they may have
been you know Congress was just innocent
dupes although I doubt it just open the
door for this to happen and the money
that was lost went into raw land and
existing buildings and the developments
that never happened very little of the
money went for construction that's one
of the myths that a lot of people like
to perpetrate that the money was sort of
dispersed or atomized into our society
through building projects and things
like that very little money went in to
construct went into raw land and build
existing buildings and developments that
never happen and when you find out who
owned see that the people that owned
these assets got most of the money it's
very obvious if you stop and think about
it but nobody did they looked at Don
Dixon you know and in the Charles
Keating and then some of the borrower's
you know mike atkinson john riddle jack
Bona these wheeler-dealer high-flying
borrowers but borrowers although you
think well they got the money
you know they got to me but they turn
around and bought something with that
money you know the owners of those
things they bought got the money and
everybody else involved took the little
cut off the top one or two percent and
so when you start looking at who are
these people it really got a lot of the
money then you're you get into the power
structure of this country and that's
where we want to go today with your Pete
Bruton we're talking about your new book
the Mafia the CIA and George Bush and
let's talk about some of the people who
play a key role in your 400 page
multi-year investigation into this
industry which really puts together some
of the most powerful people in America
as we see you in your the title book
George Bush the current chief of staff I
guess that's where Baker is now he's
also running the Bush campaign we're
talking about and this is a bipartisan
operation we're talking about Lloyd
Bentsen we're talking about Orrin Hatch
we're talking about the entire mmm
several of the Bush children and we're
talking about a man by the name of
Walter Michele now Walter Misha will not
ring a bell right away with listeners
but some of the things and the
activities that he was involved in and
some of the ways that the money was used
will begin to ring bells I believe for
some of the people who hear this
broadcast so let's talk about exactly
who Walter Mischel is and what role he
played in this whole debacle which some
say could cost ultimately 500 million
dollars if you follow the Stanford Law
Review they estimate one point four
trillion dollars when you talk about
long-term interest loans and borrowing
and all that kind of stuff
I believe the Wall Street Journal has
come up with a figure of two trillion
dollars in an editorial but the point is
that it's going to be being paid out by
our children and our children's children
for years to come so let's talk about
Walter Misha who is he right now who is
Walter mission
and what role does he play in Houston
politics and in financial circles
throughout the country first ran into
Walter Bishop when I was covering County
government for the Houston Chronicle I
was the Harris County beat reporter and
his name would start cropping up in
conversations with County officials as
being a very powerful land developer
that you know if Walter mayor called a
public official they you know would get
off the phone with even the governor of
Texas and talk to Walter mission and it
was always in sort of hushed tones and
and sort of almost like fear was in
their voice and as a land developer he
controlled a lot of real estate projects
in Houston but I also found out not at
the time because the Harris County
government wasn't concerned with the
banking he also controlled the third
largest bank at Houston called allied
bank and then when I moved over to City
Hall covered the city government for the
Chronicle it's the same thing all over
again Walter Mitchell you hear him in
the background you know pulling strings
everybody's afraid of it you never seen
in public very rarely and always you
know he's kind of a mystery man to me
and when I went over the Houston post
are doing investigative reporting I ran
into some I done some organized crime
stories and in talking to some of the
people in Houston there for me with
organized crime if hearing over again
well you know Walter mystery of course
is connected to these people and that
kind of was startling information and
also we've run into Walter Mischer in a
big investigative piece on Hermann
Hospital which was a a Charity Hospital
and used to the very large Charity
Hospital
was involved in a lot of insider
dealings and they were not operating as
a charity they had lost their mission
along the way and Walter Mishra served
on the board and his son was then one of
the top members of the board and another
report and I got involved with
investigating Hermann Hospital and of
course that brought our tasting back to
Walter Mischer and we ended up doing a
story of interviewing him and doing a
big story on him and it was the cover
story of a Sunday magazine in the
Houston post and in that story in our
interview he admitted that he had
actually met and had business
discussions with carlos marcello the new
orleans mafia boss and we thought that
was pretty interesting and in talking to
other people this was confirmed
you know monsieur had ties to the mob
all right now let's be clear we're
talking about somebody who was a Houston
mover and shaker who has some kind of
substantial relationship with the Bush
family his son went to school with one
of the Bush children George Bush and
recently and his wife went and the first
lady went over and had some kind of tea
or meeting with mr. Mishra's only
daughter we're talking about somebody
who has a relationship with many
officials like this well Walter matures
probably and considered the the sort of
the political power broker of Texas I
mean he he has influenced politicians
from Houston City Hall all the way up to
the president the United States he was
very good friends with Lyndon Johnson
Walter made sure it was very very close
to John Connelly
other Texas governors and he's
controlled most of the Houston mayors
and and county politicians in Houston
and he does it behind the scenes he's
very good fundraiser I mean he he tells
the financial people and the developers
who he's gonna backhand and they will
chip in and he has a lot of influence in
determining who the people in in Houston
business support politically and you
know when you started researching his
history you run into some very
interesting stuff and and and I want to
get to that but just to complete this
relationship he is not one who stands on
Party principle he's been known to
support Democrats Republicans flip-flop
in the middle of races support who seems
to be the winner in 1988 he had a
relationship with Lloyd Bentsen Lloyd
Bentsen dependent on him today
well he's always supported Benson from
from way back in the 70s I mean he
served on Benson's campaign committees
he's raised a lot of money for him in
1988 Benson had his Texas senatorial
headquarters and in Michener's building
they've been very close and it's well
known and that they are very good
friends and made sure one time denied to
me had ever done business with Benson
and I found a land deal or his company
and some other people had bought some
apartment projects from Benson and that
so they're quite close and Mischer will
support both sides of the stands I mean
these you got to understand Mischer
politics to him is not like let's pick
out a horse and bet all our money on the
horse it's they you know they don't bet
they support both sides if mish are
gonna support one candidate you'll have
his associate support the other ones he
covers his bed these people do not
gamble in politics they always cover
their bets I mean and so in the 1988
election you hear you have George Bush
as a Republican candidate versus Lloyd
Bentsen the vice president Democratic
candidate
and the houston boys had their bets
covered either side one they were in and
so it didn't you know it and Benson
Benson actually ran his vice
presidential campaign or his or both had
offices that were owned by Walter
mission well his senatorial campaign I
don't know how you could distinguish the
two I mean you know he's he's doing all
of this campaigning is one thing
okay now you began to make some
connections between mr. Mishra and
organized crime and we want to get to
his relationship with Herman KBB but
take us back to nineteen say fifty two
and Misha also starts another career
which tells us that he not only has ties
with organized crime
but ties with intelligence and with the
Central Intelligence Agency yeah I first
went across people talking about this
when we were doing our big story on
measure as the magazine cover Misha and
his partners including coca-cola had
bought seven hundred thousand acres in
beliefs a small Central American country
which was approximately twelve percent
of the land of that country and it turns
out that all of their they had vague
plans and nothing ever happened it was
all kind of mysterious and when I was
talking to Misha's friends and
associates for our story what I'm
totally that you know he was pretty sure
that that was a CIA deal that Michigan
was doing and you know that just kind of
went around over my head and I didn't
really care about that and and it didn't
mean anything and I thought well yeah
maybe so
but I wasn't interested in that it was
only till about three years later when I
went across mission son-in-law being
involved with the CIA that now
remembered what that man had told me and
then I started looking back and see if I
could find any other connections and in
in 1952 Misha was like thirty years old
he was a sewer contract but in
and he paved parking lots he had like
one dump truck and one tractor or two
dump trucks and one tractor and you know
and he was very small but in 1952
monsieur bought into depending on
whether you believe the first time you
talk to the same time you either bought
into some paper mills or sawmills in
Honduras and then he sold them in either
54 55 - Clint Murchison jr. at the same
time in 1952 he buys into 26,000 acres
in Far West Texas even west of big
Dinesh mark on the Rio Grande and why is
he doing that's the clay what's going on
here well if you look back what was
happening in Honduras in 1952 that's
where the CIA and United Fruit Company
were planning a coup basically of
Guatemala because the Liberal government
the ARB insko and had taken over and
we're doing land reforms and and
nationalized a lot of United Fruit land
United Fruit wanted them out United
Fruit head connection the CIA to the
Dulles and the CIA decided they were
gonna get involved with this and they
began training people in Honduras and
Nicaragua in 52 and 53 and here major
goes down there and when I asked him
about this he even admitted to meeting
Somoza the dictator of Nicaragua says
the last dictators father Anastasio
Somoza Garcia and you know I found that
just unbelievable here's a 30 year old
sewer contractor you know with two dump
trucks and a tractor owning paper mills
and Honduras and in hobnobbing with the
dictator of Nicaragua and at the same
time he's buying land lots of land out
on the border with Texas and Mexico land
that later we find out there's a CIA
land
strip right next to it that they were
doing guns for drugs into and I was told
by a number of people that Walter
mission would control this landing strip
and who'd he sell it who'd he sell his
sawmill a paper mill investment after
the coup had taken place he says at the
Clint Murchison jr. there has documented
ties I mean on-the-record ties of the
CIA a CIA agent named Robert sensi
testified in court
that Clint Murchison jr. had helped him
over in Africa trying to work on some
satellite tracking stations and there's
also another connection and a California
company that some California journalists
marry frikar and Steve piezo found out
was doing work in a cover for the CIA
and who turns up on the board but Clint
Murchison jr. so here we have you know
back in 52 already it really looks like
it's very it's circumstantial evidence
but it's it's highly suspect that
something else is going on when you
throw it in also with his current
project in beliefs and you find out that
that his son in law's attorney was
talking to Oliver North about a project
in Belize
at the same time I see the CIA was
training Contras in beliefs and they
buying you know twelve percent of the
land mass in the country it just all
fits together
and it's a very plausible explanation
and one that I find pretty persuasive
now it didn't stop in beliefs you carry
this story to southern Texas could you
talk a little bit about these kinds of
CIA connections in South Texas well this
is actually far West Texas but back in
the fall of 1988
I was at the Houston post doing stories
on mafia involvement and savings and
loans and had been for over a year and
my colleague at the Houston post got a
phone call for a woman it was quite
irate and chewed him out for not doing
very good he and me not doing very good
job when I savings-and-loan story we've
missed a lot of this stuff and we didn't
know what's going on
so my colleague Greg C and I went out to
see her and her name was Rebecca Sims
and she had been Robert Corson was
accounted Corson was monsieurs former
son-in-law been married to ensures only
daughter Paula who earlier this year
George and Barbara Bush went to visit on
a secret visit in February went to their
house and she told us that Corson was a
CIA asset and he Rebecca Sanders told
yes and she was there she was Corson's
uh comptroller yeah yeah
a course and also the savings alone in
South Texas and Deering so we started
working this and and when Rebecca told
me that you know I was I was kind of
nonplussed you know and I didn't know
quite what to make of it I was really
looking for mafia I wasn't looking for
CI you know you know I mean I had no
interest in the CIA at that time I got
back to the paper I started thinking
about what an organized crime strike
force attorney in Kansas City had been
telling me we had been sending him our
stories on the Mafia involved because he
was tracking mafia and bank failures in
Kansas City and there was a person that
we had in kana guy named Mario Renda
from Long Island it was a money broker a
mob money broker and Renda was down in
mainland savings and other savings and
loans in Texas and also in Kansas City
and this prosecutor his name was Loyd
Munroe was investigating Renda and also
a failed little bank and we were sending
Lloyd our stories and he can't
tell us you're missing something dig
here these stories you know you don't
have the whole story and we know what it
was he wouldn't tell us neither and he
was you know he was playing his cards
close to his best and I got back to the
Houston post after talking to Rebecca
sales
I wondered if Lord when I was talking
about the CIA so I get on the plane go
to Kansas City and sure enough that's
exactly what he was talking about so
then we started investigating in earnest
the CIA and in the meantime Rebecca edge
found out about a guy named Richard
brenneke who lived in Portland Oregon
claimed to be an intelligence operative
had gotten some press on the iran-contra
dealings in fact he had helped the New
York Times in Newsweek brakes on the ran
contra stories I mean he had some good
information on iran-contra and Rebecca
some have found out that he might know
some things about Walter Misha and
Robert Corson and so we went to sea and
went to Portland Oregon I like to make a
joke that I spent him a month one week
with Richard brenneke he's very
brennick he's very hard to deal with as
any reporters dealt with and will tell
you he he talks in vague terms sometimes
he'll contradict himself one day or the
other
he'll act like he knows something one
day the next day doesn't know it and
after about a week I was extremely
frustrated with trying to get
information from Rinna he said he had
worked with Robert course and they were
laundering
mafia money for the CIA taking it you
know down to Panama and Cayman Islands
you know and he didn't have any really
proof he had he had Panamanian documents
for this company called I fama and he
had started it with a con man named
Ramon Donofrio he looking Donofrio and
you find mob and CIA can
documented I didn't know that at the
time I found it later so I'm getting rid
of frustrated he tells he's telling this
story about a landing strip in in Texas
but you know guns for drugs I mean there
was CIA and maybe even some Israeli
involvement and so I pulled out a piece
of yellow legal paper and I slapped it
down on his business and draw me a
picture show me exactly where this is
and everything you know about they
starts drawing a picture
he says near lahee tiss which is west of
Big Bend National Park and he shows this
Mesa and he shows where it is he says
four thousand feet wide long and it's
double wide he said and he said there's
a road running at the end of it and
there's this big mountain just north of
it you go over this Mesa and it's about
like ten or twelve miles so I take that
piece of paper and I go back to Houston
with it
and I'm I'm very frustrated because
that's about all I've got in my hands
that I can double-check that brenneke
told me I said you know if this doesn't
check out
you know I'm blowing brenneke off you
know me buddy anything you know that's
it so the first thing I did I get some
topographic maps the usgs class a seven
and a half minute topos of that area
that have everything on it I used to
work making these maps certainly and
then they have everything on and I said
be that landing strip is out there it's
on this ma'am I get the map out no
landing strip so I'm talking to Rebecca
about this you know and and she said I
really believe brenneke oh yeah I think
he knows what he's talking about I said
the only other thing is to either go out
there or get the aerial photographs that
the USGS uses to make these maps so I do
that i order them and I get a
stereoscope you know you can you can
take these aerial photographs and you
can look at it with a stereoscope and it
pops up at it
3d so I'm looking on the map on the
photographs you know I'm following out
from LA he does he go over this big Mesa
and here's this little mountain and
they're the landing strip I mean exactly
the way he described it and it's not on
the topographic map and so then I went
out there and it was exactly the way he
had described it not only that there had
been tremendous activity there there
were holes and berm piles and roads and
and the county actually maintains a
fairly good road
u-unless the middle of nowhere there's
nothing around there you could get a big
fuel truck or water truck up there and
one of the things that struck me I went
out there with another post reporter who
was familiar with that area
were these huge tire tracks they were
running parallel to the on both sides of
runway which was as brenneke described
it double wide it was 4,000 feet long
the 4,000 feet is very significant if
you look at most of the other runways
dirt runways in that area they were like
2,000 feet to accommodating a little
single-engine Cessna or something like
that but why 4,000 feet 4,000 feet was
because they were flying c-130s into
there and the minimum takeoff of fully
loaded c-130 is 3,700 feet so you just
got barely enough and and this is the
only only flat area within miles of this
place it's the only flat area but there
are no sudden rises on either side of
the runway so you can get a fully loaded
c-130 in and out of there pretty easy I
started talking to people in that area
lawman you know they some of them
wouldn't talk finally got a confirm that
you know what brainy kid said that was
used for it was you know guns and drugs
and tell me what what you say woman what
kind of people confirmed what brenneke
said and I'm asking you this as you know
Pete for a very good reason because
there's been a lot of publicity and a
lot of articles
that discredited Richard brenneke there
was an endless story in the Village
Voice that was written by um Frank snap
former a CIA officer who was in Vietnam
under Tom Palmer who says that braiding
he can't believe a word this man says so
help us understand why you a careful
reporter would believe Richard Brent
okay okay
number one the contractor who put this
strip in a man out in that country
although he wouldn't talk about what was
going did confirm that there were it was
there were gun shipments in there and
there were people going out there
shooting off high-powered weapons to law
enforcement long time law enforcement
base was in that area who covered border
activities who specifically are know
about smuggling and narcotics confirmed
that this was a guns for drug strip and
the CIA was involved also brenneke told
me that he flew into that strip one time
with some people in the Medellin Cartel
and he asked them who's landing strip is
this and they said it was Walter
Michener's varenyky by the way had met
Walter mission earlier in Houston that
Robert coronet had introduced him to
miss her at the Allied Bank building
this landing strip by the way is owned
on a piece of property by a widow in
Florida who did not even know it was
there
so they chose it quite carefully I mean
she never went out to the site
she wouldn't you know wouldn't know have
any knowledge of this and she said it
was built there without her knowledge or
permission so we've got there we've got
two or three already compromised then I
found a CIA contractor a pilot by the
name of Tosh Plumlee the San Diego
reader had done a long story on him a
couple of years ago and he had talked
about his career as a contract pilot for
the CIA
you know guns and drugs in Latin America
he talked about flying into Texas I
wondered if he might be familiar with a
strip Tosh Plumlee by the way it's
mentioned that at several books on on
the Contra affair but only by his first
name Tosh apparently the writers that
wrote about him or talk to him or knew
about you know only knew him by his
nickname tush he's mentioned as a CIA
contract eyelet in a book called the
fishes read about operation Mongoose the
CIA's operation against Castro in which
he flew CIA contract flying in and out
around Cuba but in that book he's only
called Robert Plumlee and apparently no
one ever made the connection that this
Robert Plumlee is the tache of the
Contras
and it turns out it's the same guy I
mean so he's he is the real thing and a
very well documented so I called him up
and I asked him about this landing strip
and he confirmed in fact he told me I
asked him for new Richard brenneke first
I said he didn't know I have never heard
of him but he said that this was the
strip was actually more active in 1883
with shipments in and out of Latin
America and also involving the Israelis
shipments of one guns and these are
high-powered weapons in fact brenneke
told me it is worth more how powered
then the Contras would be using I mean
so if you're talking about the artillery
and stuff like this going down in Latin
America and Braddock he had said the
same thing and a Texas Ranger out in
that area who who first told me that the
strip was well-maintained and quite
active in the early 80s and then later
call me and and tried to deny that there
was any activity there at all you know I
mean a lot of people that are trying to
protect this operation nowhere where was
Walter Mishra's land and referee because
this wasn't exist wasn't his land so why
would he be implicated I mean didn't he
he told you he wasn't he had no
affiliation with the Central
Intelligence Agency right in fact he
said he would have somebody write a
letter dinner well he said he was
working on getting someone
to get the CIA to write a letter
claiming that he had never worked for
him of course if they had done that you
know I would almost be proof positive
that he did I mean that would be the
only way you could get a letter like
that
the only other letter I'm aware of like
that was the one the CIA wrote saying
that Heinrich Rapp and Richard brenneke
hadn't worked for them of course the
jury in Portland Oregon decided um
excuse me decided that he had and the
CIA later had to recant and say Heinrich
rap had indeed worked or have been
trained in one of their proprietaries so
you know a letter from the CIA is not
worth very much all right and so Misha's
land was paid Mischer is the biggest
landowner that he owns hundreds of
thousands of acres in that vicinity owns
the town of lettuce he's trying to
develop as the palm springs of Texas he
and Robert oh Anderson the former chair
of the board of land Crisfield owned
250,000 acres in that vicinity the
eastern barter is about it it was 2 or 3
miles to the west of this landing strip
he also owned land south of the landing
strip so he's got land on two sides of
the land experian course ac-130 for one
of its its characteristics is low level
being able to conduct low-level drops
you know it's not unusual for a c-130 to
go in and drop drop somewhere and then
land somewhere else we're talking with
Pete Bruton he is the author of a new
book the Mafia of the CIA and George
Bush and we're gonna get to George Bush
in the Bush family in one minute but
we're talking about Walter Mischer who
is a an associate of Bush of people like
James Baker
and the and many many powerful people in
this country and you're talking about
before where mr. Mishra's power derives
from so can you talk about where that
comes from this virtually unknown to
Americans where this may comes from and
how it works for him and to make to give
him his and how it works for him to give
him his power okay yeah
miss sure we don't know how he's a man
of mystery
sometime back in the 40s or 50s became
involved with both the Mafia and the CIA
and he's a middleman I mean he is a he's
a functionary that flows back and forth
between these entities and politicians
and banks and his power derives from the
fact that he has these connections to
the Mafia and to the CIA and the
politicians and measures connection to
Bush although there are some personal
connections I mean Mischer says he's
known Bush for a long time but doesn't
know him well you look and you see that
you know you have Bush visiting his
daughter you have them both socializing
at the Houston Country Club you got them
both and their families involved in the
ritziest private school in Houston but
when you thought they're real
connections between bush and Mischer or
people like Robert Moss Walker who is
you know Bush's campaign finance
chairman you know his money man and
Mischer bought 50 over 5,000 acres from
Moss Walker's partners one-time mission
in Bush and a man named Albert Bell Fay
who was the father of the Republican
Party in Houston that Bush called his
mentor and he found Albert Bell Fay
doing business with Misha and his
son-in-law
it's Mischer and Bush and a man named
Jimmy Lyon who is the father of the
right-wing Republicans in Houston had a
bank called River Oaks Bank and Trust
both of them doing business with Jimmy
Lyon
it's Mischer and
a County judge in Houston named John
Lindsay and Bush
Lindsay's between them both you can take
a number of it's even like Lloyd Bentsen
I mean Bush and Benson were you know
tennis partners in the Houston Country
Club it's it's Mischer and a mobster
named Herman K baby and babies part of
named Harvey McLain and then McLain to
Bush McLane worked on Bush's 1980
campaign I had a long conversation
together in New Orleans in 1980 and
McClain started little Bank in
Washington DC called hora National Bank
that was was doing favors for
Republicans and helping the Contras and
also doing deals with Harlan KBB I mean
it's the circle it it's the circle of
Houston businessmen that both Bush and
Benson are part of and Misha is part of
its mission and his one his right-hand
man named Jack Trotter and a man named
William Blake more a Midland oil man
who's very close man then to Bush so you
can draw all you see all these
connections and you know it goes to
political power and so even though you
know you don't see Mischer and Bush
going out drinking together they have
these very very strong connections and I
think miss sure is probably used to be
anyway one of the most if not the most
powerful man in this country and very
few people outside Texas knew about him
all right let's go to the title of your
book and let's see if we can cut to the
quick here the title is the Mafia the
CIA and George Bush and obviously you
have the president's President of the
United States name in there right under
the CIA and the Mafia because you
believe there's some pretty close
connections that's something that no one
else knew about that George Bush
personally intervened in the federal
regulation of a very extremely dirty
savings alone in floor
that was doing deals with mafia people
and CIA people and this never came out
it was in the national press I found it
in in the Miami Review which is a legal
magazine in Miami they were covering the
trial of some of the executives of
sunrise savings which is out of Boynton
Beach Florida north of Miami and at that
time sunrise savings was one of the
largest failures in the country its
failure cost taxpayers about seven
hundred million dollars
in 1988 the federal officials
responsible for keeping track of the
assets of fail savings and loans said
four-fifths of all the assets they were
dealing with in fail saving those were
out of sunrise savings sunrise savings
was making loans to ray Corona making
loans to John riddle a very close friend
of Walter Missha and Robert Corson they
were making loans to a man named Harold
white who we find out is in business
with some mob associates and some men
who were connected to the CIA and so
that the pin at that time journalists at
least was a mine review covering a story
didn't realize what sunrise savings was
and apparently no one else picked up on
this but the story was and it was
confirmed to me by someone who has
personal knowledge of it and it was
testified to at the trial was that the
chief executive officer of sunrise went
to George Bush when he was vice
president went to his office complained
about the federal regulators cracking
down on sunrise savings bush called in
the person who woman underneath ed gray
had headed the Federal Home Loan Bank
board and dressed her down and told her
to back off of sunrise savings it later
failed cost of seven hundred million
dollars and millions and millions of
dollars to people with connections to
the Mafia the CIA this has never come
out and here we have Bush personally
intervening and the failure
savings-and-loan spare cost taxpayers
700 million of course the more notorious
connections or to Neil Bush and
Silverado savings but we have also the
connections of George Bush to Mischer
who then is involved in a number of
failed savings and loans and and we have
Baker who has been Bush's key player
advisor interceding on behalf of in some
very serious situations that it appears
to I mean I think there's a significant
circumstantial evidence that shows that
Baker was somehow involved in in in
mainland savings or the lack of
prosecution of mainland Savings who
called mainland savings was the first
Savings alone that I started looking at
and we found mafia NC a strong time CIA
involvement in mainland including a
major loan adnan khashoggi
at the same time Khashoggi was funding
the first publicized arms for hostages
deal with Iran the chair of the board of
mainland was raymond hill the to federal
savings of Oh Insurance Corporation
hired a private law firm out of Houston
to investigate the failure of mainland
to file a lawsuit against the officers
and directors to try to recover the
money that was lost this law firm was
Andrews and Kurth now and ruzek earth
conducted an investigation their lawyers
drew up a 60 page complaint or petition
or lawsuit to be filed against Raymond
Hill and other officers and directors of
mainland alleging various and numerous
cases of fraud and in many cases these
were criminal allegations and they said
that Raymond healing in like a four year
period had gotten salaries and payments
from mailing of over four point three
million dollars mainland failure by the
way private cost taxpayers about five
hundred
this lawsuit excuse me was never filed
and Greg C and I wrote some stories
about why is the the federal regulators
not filing a lawsuit in mainland because
the statute of limitations was about to
run they only had two or three years
after the failure to file a lawsuit to
try to recover the money and they let it
run the FSA I see he left the feds let
this lawsuit run so it was never found
and we wrote a big story about this
criticizing the feds in Andrews and Kurt
well the next day I got a phone call
from someone in Andrews Kurth who told
me that they had drawn up a lawsuit but
that it was killed at the top levels of
the FSA I see and Andrews curse and I
say well I'd like to see that and so
this person mailed me a copy of lawsuit
and it had all these allegations of we
wrote a number of stories about this it
wasn't until several years later after
I'd finished investigating mainland that
I found out from a number of people that
Raymond Hill was very close and very
good friends to James a baker the third
now the White House chief staff former
Secretary of State and at the time of
mainland's failure was the secretary of
the treasury
ultimately in charge of all regulations
yes so that kind of you know that
something's going on I was struck by
that and also James Baker was the former
managing partner of Andrews and Kurth
the law firm hired by the FSOC to
investigate mainland's failure and
ultimately did nothing did not file a
lawsuit against raymond hill and i think
of course this is one of the reasons
that raymond here
so arrogant because he knew not only
would did he have the Mafia to see ie
yeah James Baker behind him okay let's
get back now to George Bush we're
talking about George Bush and
specifically connections between George
Bush and the Mafia in the CIA
and before we go on to the boys the bush
boys you talked about that Florida a
situation where the vice president then
Vice President George Bush interceded be
very clear about who the players were in
what she was interested in and how they
were connected to the Mafia all right
suddenly was a the SNL was sunrise
savings at the time sunrise savings was
making loans within dealing with a man
named John riddle who was a friend of
Walter measures a Houston businessman an
attorney a close friend and partner of
Robert Corson the CIA agent and misha's
former son-in-law he borrowed thirty to
forty million dollars from from sunrise
savings and loans had gone bad
of course I mean riddle also had an
airplane company called first western
aviation that was financed by the bank
of one of misha's closest friends and
associates and according to our eBay
minashi an Israeli intelligence officer
was shipping guns to Iran in Iraq first
Western was John riddles company all
right they also were making loans to a
man named Ray Corona who owned a bank in
Florida Sunshine State Bank but was
called a mafia bank by federal
regulators its biggest borrower was
Leonard Palolo a Philadelphia mafia
associate well-known well documented
mafia associate
it was also making Lois a man named
Harold white who was in partners with a
man named Donald burg who was has been
mentioned in connection with Richard
Nixon and bebe rebozo and deals down in
Florida and was also a close friend of
Lois chess ler who was Meyer Lansky you
know the mobs
financial Wizards partner and his up his
attorney
Harold fights attorney was Truman
Skinner Truman Skinner was the former
managing partner of Paul hello whales
law firm Paul hello L was is one of the
founders and masterminds of the Central
Intelligence Agency one of the original
founders who started the CIA's when
their first proprietaries C supply that
was funneling weapons into Thailand for
the for the nationalist Chinese hello L
is is one of the top CIA operatives here
his partner Truman Skinner turns up his
Harold White's partner and then we have
Donald Berg partners with Lewis Chester
a mafia associate partners with Harold
white Harold White's borrowing from
sunrise savings ray Coronas borrowing
John riddles boring those are the only
three I found I mean it would be if I
had enough time it would be nice to go
back and try to find all alone this is
the one that juices that comes in and he
says what right he says back off and you
know you think if Bush was gonna tell
anybody the back aides tell somebody
back off mainland or you know Silverado
savings you know where his son was you
know why I say these are no the savings
on the Florida and that's what nobody
you know caught on at the time but then
you find out they're making loans too
and you know it makes sense then well
why would George Bush not want the Mafia
to be prosecuted well I think because
he's got too many connections to in
there indirect it's not like you know
Gambino associate you know John Gotti
walks into you know well
Bush's office and say you know said hey
George they you know I got a deal for
you
it's all the intermediaries it's like
Herman BB and Walter Mischer and these
people that they connect to Bush okay
let's go to we you mentioned the name
Herman KBB and most people don't know
who that is although he has cost
taxpayers in the hundreds of millions if
not the billions of dollars and let's go
through that door through Neil Bush Neil
Bush was a director at Silverado he was
on the board of Gulfstream he had he
made some very interesting or helped to
facilitate some very interesting loans -
Ken good and Bill Walters for over a
hundred million dollars so what's the
bush mafia CIA connection there and I
guess Herman KBB comes into it yeah well
first can you do it let me explain her
make it a little better okay baby her
McKay baby was a mafia associate from
from Louisiana he's tied into the Carlos
Marcello Mafia family out of New Orleans
he is called the godfather of the failed
Texas SNL's he was involved in a dozen
at least it doesn't fail Texas savings
and loans the some of the most notorious
like Vernon and mainland and western and
Sun Belt he worked behind the scenes he
would finance the purchase of savings
and loans for his by his associates and
then he and his buddies would get loans
out of these mainland savings is listed
in a comptroller of the currency report
as being one of the SNL's influenced or
controlled by Herman KBB as a dozen
others are he was eventually caught by
the US attorney in Shreveport and and
pled guilty to bank fraud and did like
ten whole months and the federal
penitentiary probably worked on his golf
game now he's out you mentioned Malin
just that once again that's the James
Baker or James Baker where he'll
everybody is here okay
so BB you know it also was tied in with
mobsters out in La Costa California
and also he we found him when I found
him in a gun deal in 1972 involved with
Barry seal who was a CIA a contract man
involved with a Gambino family associate
out of New York and there a number of
intelligence ties to BB as well as a CI
including a very back in Washington DC
culinary Bank would you have to finance
through right and this is the bank that
spits channel used in helping to fund
the Contras right and Stefan halper was
was the partner with Herman KB B's man
okay Stephan Halper became chairman of
the board while Harvey MacLean Herman KB
B's boy put up the three million dollars
initial capital that came from her vkv
B's bank in Shreveport Louisiana Halper
had been a longtime sort of political
operative involved in political
espionage he served as Bush's director
of policy issues during Bush's 1980
presidential campaign then one went to
work for the state Department and then
started Palmer National Bank with Harvey
MacLean and helped her just to be
another one of his adventures may have
been the fact that he helped to pilfer
information from the Carter campaign
then what was later called debate where
Carter's debate notes were stolen for
the Reagan Bush campaign that's great
yeah Hopper was implicated and I think
about that time he left the board of
Homer National Bank Halper also is the
last entry in Oliver North's White House
Diaries if the last entry is legal
defense firm - Stefen helper and Halper
was very close to all north it's not
surprising because helpers father-in-law
was ray Klein who was one of the
original fathers of the CIA and deputy
director of intelligence of the CIA
in Halper was very close to oliver north
it's not surprising because helpers
father-in-law was right Klein who was
one of the original fathers of the CIA
and deputy director of intelligence of
the CIA for years
okay so we're have been talking about
Herman Cain BB we've been setting the
tone because he does intersect then with
Neil Bush and Silverado yes one of the
second largest borrower if Silverado was
Bill Walters who was a Denver architect
who had financed Neil Bush's entry into
the oil business and he was Neil Bush's
sugar daddy and most of the money that
came from him paid Neil Bush's salary
well
while his company drilled dry hole after
dry hole Bill Walters and his associated
companies borrowed close to 100 million
dollars from Silverado site in addition
they sold property close to 100 million
dollars to Silverado which caused them
to lose money well Bill Walters shows up
in Texas ten years earlier doing
business with Herman KBB Walters had a
partner named Richard Ross Miller who
although did not bar from Silverado
borrowed from a number of other fail
savings and loans and and closed in
close to 200 million dollars went
bankrupt cost the taxpayers a lot of
money Ross Miller and Walters came out
of Texas and bought a bank from from
Bibi's associates it was part of the
Texas Renta bank scandal where they were
swapping loans back and forth sort of
the precursor to the the SNL debacle
there are some direct business dealings
between Beebe and Walters partner Ross
Miller involved in a dirty SML it in
Houston at that time and so then Walters
goes back to Denver and it starts
financing Neil Bush and borrowing from
Silverado savings another bush Neil
Bush's sugar daddies Kenneth's good came
from Texas
good was borrowing money from Silverado
he also bought Gulfstream land
development company in Florida and put
Neil Bush on the board at $100,000 a
year
directors salary and one of the places
where good got some money to buy
Gulfstream was Western savings in Dallas
which was one of the Hermon KBB
connected SNL's another figure in in the
silverado crowd was a Canadian
businessman named John dick who was
tanning with Richard Ross Miller and was
doing business with people in Houston
connected to Herman kbv and finally we
have the second you know I was mistaken
bill Walters was the biggest borrower of
Silverado the number one largest the
second was a man named Ellison trying
Starnes jr. and trying Stars jr. a trans
Torrance was from Houston born 77
million dollars from Silverado nobody
seemed to know very much about him he
just came out of the clear to get 77
million bought a orange juice factory in
Florida a hotel in Breckenridge Colorado
and some buildings in Colorado Springs
you find you traits eat Ryan Starnes
back and by the way these loans are the
part of the loans that Neil Bush and his
directors were sued about by the federal
regulators I mean that was one of the
big loans they talked about you know how
could you approve something like this it
was part of this suit against the
officers and directors you look back at
eat rhinestones a conman probably the
biggest con man in American history and
nobody hardly knows anything about him
his second bankruptcy may have cost
totaled approximately five hundred
million dollars he borrowed from banks
and savings and loans and didn't pay
back well his first bankruptcy was in
the middle 70s he gets out and who's he
gets financed for from first right out
of his first bankruptcy but measures a
lie
Bank and then he's where does he go to
borrow money during the 80s he borrows
it from Cottonelle savings in Houston
which was financed and controlled by
Herman KBB okay also trying Starnes was
partners with our fellow friend john
riddle the man who was borrowing money
from sunrise savings no I forgot to
mention the the federal prosecutors at
sunrise gave riddle immunity from
prosecution in return for his
cooperation which I don't know if even
cooperated or not but they either didn't
know who he was or were told to leave
him alone in fact at one fed federal
regulator in Washington refers to riddle
is the Teflon John because he's escaped
prosecuting Bart over two hundred
million dollars from fail savings and
loans they didn't pay back now for all
of this for all of his work here
essentially the punishment that Neil
Bush received was that if he wants to
get involved in another federally enjoys
an institution he should be a little
more careful that's great I agreed to do
there that he would he would avoid
conflicts of interest in the future
why'd it take the regulators so long to
close down that effect well that's
another one of the things that that's no
reporter has been able to get to the
bottom of all we know is that the
federal regulators were ready to take
Silverado down in the fall of 1988 and
the regulator in charge out of Topeka
Kansas Kev's Mowbray waited until the
week after the election the George Bush
won before he took Silverado down and
apparently he was instructed from by
someone in Washington DC
I'm sure someone high up to hold off and
we don't know who that is and there's
been a lot of speculation but it's never
been nailed down alright there's another
Bush boy Jeb Bush and could you talk a
little bit about Jeb Bush in his
relationship to Camilo pedroia
camilla padre de
but Jeb lives in Miami and is you know
very close to the Cuban community there
he's a mover and shaker in Dade County
he's a key player in the Republican
local Republican politics Thank You his
former chairman of the Republican Party
in Dade County he's involved in you know
real estate business with a man named
Kadena Jeb was also involved in a
business deal Amanda Camila padre de
another Cuban exile padre de pled guilty
to HUD fraud I think last year but back
about ten years ago padre does business
partner Guillermo Hernandez Cartaya
had bought a savings and loan in south
texas called jefferson savings from
Lloyd Benson's family Vinson by the way
it first tried to deny that he even
owned any stock in this SML and
fortunately I had a notarized document
from the Texas savings I want to show
that he was the reason that one of the
original founders and stockholders and
when I told his press secretary that
then they changed their story and then
agreed that he had been a stockholder
but his father so this savings on to
Gilmore and at his court ayah he was one
of the all-time bad boys of the Western
Hemisphere another Cuban exile you mean
well he was Cuban exile he was member of
the famous Brigade 2506 that fought in
the Bay of Pigs he was captured then
ransom back by there cut by our
government he went to work for a bank in
Atlanta and then he started a company in
Florida and this company ended up doing
money laundering drug smuggling weapons
deals in dealing with the Mafia and the
CIA when the local prosecutor in Florida
tried to go after Cartaya
the CIA put a stop to it okay they
basically shut off the investigation
in the mean time during this time he
buys this SNL from Lloyd Benson's family
he's in before that he had served on the
board of directors with Benson's father
and Benson's brother okay he immediately
starts laundering drug money through
there and in looting this S&L the
prosecutors come down they start
prosecuting him the CIA comes down and
tells the US Attorney's know to please
back off because he's one of theirs and
he's done favors for United States
including they said scamming thirty
million dollars from Saudi Arabia
actually it was from I think it was from
Abu Dhabi one of their merits and it is
a well-documented escapade of car tires
where he basically took thirty seven
million dollars out of this bank so here
you have Benson and the Benson family in
business with somebody who has got all
kinds of legal problems including some
convictions and he's actually he's also
okay by the FDIC yes why would the FDIC
trust this man I don't know but the the
Texas regulators found out about him
immediately I mean he was started doing
wild deals and and and they came down to
to try to shut him off and and the top
Texas SNL examiner art Lizer
told me that he was sitting in a bar
when they haven't drink with an FBI
agent that was was doing some undercover
work there at Jefferson savings and I
said you know what is it about cartel
he's so bad yet nothing happens to him
and the FBI agent turned in he said did
you ever think about the CIA
of course this was about the time the
CIA was coming and to the Justice world
and try to get them back up well justice
went ahead and convicted him a bank
fraud but that conviction was rolled
into his IRS conviction out of Florida
and it was like only total about five
years the next year there was another
indictment brought against Hernandez
Cartaya and his partner Camilo padre de
who later shows up in business with Jeb
Bush and that in
was eventually dropped by the Justice
Department and the judge also asked that
it be dropped now what kind of business
were they doing together what what kind
of business was petraea doing with the
Jeb and the president's son Jim and his
partner built actually built an office
building for pedrera they constructed
his office building
they uh they also constructed an office
building or we're going to forgot I'll
bet to a Duke a who was a Colombian
exile that was a later convicted
of bank fraud and also there was another
SNL a deal involving Jeb Bush that the
New York Times wrote about I'm not that
familiar with it but his partner was a
man named Jay Edgar Houston and their
loan I think went bad and it cost
taxpayers some money and we'll find
Houston later showing up as a partner a
man trying to get involved in a big
Florida land deal all right just just
before we're gonna have sort of change
the story to what happened in trying to
put together this kind of investigation
the kinds of roadblocks and hurdles you
had in getting this information out and
one this is Janice Berenstein and we are
here with Susan burns who's joining us
now we're speaking with Pete Bruton who
is the author of a new book the Mafia
the CIA and George Bush the current
President of the United States and I
want to just throw out so do a quick
back of what there are many many names
in your book and people are gonna have
to go out and read it to find out some
more of the details and there are quite
a few details in there appears to be
excellent documentation but let me just
do a quick back and forth and some names
that I think are interesting and people
should at least hear tell us about
Farhad Azima Indian Springs Bank and
where Lloyd wonro comes into this
picture
Florida Zima was an Iranian natives
isn't or any native he now lives in
London but he lived in Kansas City for
over thirty years and he had a very
interesting airline company called
global international Airways that did
work for the CIA and as EEMA was a CIA
asset
in my book you know really nails his
standard been Zima has denied it and a
lot of people have worked on a Zima and
all the smoke and around him involving
with the CIA
and I've got really nailed down his
involvement with the CIA including a
statement from a CI former CIA officer
who was on the Iranian desk during
iran-contra confirming that Farhad azim
I global international Airways worked
for the CIA in doing weapons deals
azeema and his company were big
borrowers and his even was on the board
of directors of Indian Springs State
Bank in Kansas City Kansas this was
basically a mob control bank a mobster
mafia Anthony Russo was bringing in my
business from Kansas City also Chicago
st. Louis more Shanker the notorious mob
lawyer for Jimmy Hoffa was was getting
money from Indian Springs and it failed
and a Seema's and his affiliated
companies
ended up costing this Bank some money
one of the private attorneys was brought
in to investigate the failure said that
azeema and his companies did contribute
to the failure of Indian Springs State
Bank one of the people investigating
Indian Spring State Bank was an
organized-crime prosecutor named Lloyd
Monroe who have I told you earlier we
had been in contact with because Mario
Renda this New York mobster was
brokering deposits in the Indian Springs
State Bank as well as into mainland say
these is another one another savings and
loans of Texas so we were following him
and that's how we got in contact Loyd
Munroe Monroe was investigating Indian
Springs State Bank he was told by an IRS
investigator that far out of Zima you
know was doing some extremely
questionable things and that he was
involved in Indian Springs State Bank
Azim was involved with this mobster
named Anthony Russo and involved with
the mob associate named chase
finn and he needed investigating by the
FBI as part of their Indian spring state
bank investigation so lord Monroe you
know instructed his FBI agents that were
doing this to look into a Zima in
several days later they reported back to
him that Azima had quote a
get-out-of-jail-free card because he
worked for the CIA and Monroe was then
told by his superiors not to investigate
a Zima this IRS agent continued and
tried to get the Justice Department to
prosecutor Zima but he never had any
success azeema during the in the interim
had moved to London which as Lord Munro
pointed out does not have an extradition
agreement with United States on IRS
charges now it's interesting that at one
point when Monroe was trying to corner
azeema Azima said he couldn't show up
for an interview because he had an
appointment at the White House well he
was having to testify and Anthony
Russo's trial and he was set up to
testify at a certain date and he had to
call in and change it because he was
going to a meeting at the White House
turned out to be a Republican
fundraising event that Ronald Reagan was
there George Bush was there and a Ziva
had been donating large sums of money to
the Republican Party and only started by
the way right when he filed for
bankruptcy for global international
Airways now global and related airlines
that does EEMA was associated with had
some very interesting jobs I think
perhaps the most hysterical thing that
I've ever heard is you have Anthony
Russo essentially working with the CIA
to deal with to do to bring in Samuel
Doe into that yes if you recall when
sergeant Samuel Doe from Liberia led a
coup in 1980 and the CIA was extremely
concerned about this because they had
some very special satellite tracking
equipment in Liberia and as you recall
Clint Murchison jr. was working with a
CIA operative named Robbie
Cinci Oh maybe trying to get some other
satellite tracking equipment in in some
other countries close to there while the
CIA was trying to get close to DOE and
so the CIA hired for how does even
global international Airways to fly doe
on this round-the-world trip and the
person that they also got to be sort of
their personal emissary to sort of show
Doha round was Anthony Russo a convicted
mobster have been convicted of a bribery
and promoting interstate prostitution so
this guy was also had been brought in to
help run India's bring state bank after
his conviction and the local FDIC office
protested and the Washington people
overruled their protest and said Russo
could come in and work for this Bank so
far Harrah's EEMA has got to get out of
jail free card Anthony Russo who is a
convicted of promoting prostitution a
federal offense across state lines is
now elevated to the status of diplomat
and entertaining a foreign head of state
for the Central Intelligence Agency yes
what an interesting story well you know
when when you want to protect the
national security United States you got
to break a few eggs let's talk about
let's bake facetious let's break a few
more eggs girl that's who's William
Blackmore William Blake more like more
we oblate laura is a Midland oil man
who's very strong a right-wing
Republican he and George Bush go way
back when George Bush first moved to
Texas he came to Midland got in the oil
business met Blake more than Blake more
and he are extremely close Blake Moore
was a very strong support of the Contras
Blakemore started a an organization
called the Gulf foundation and Caribbean
gulf and caribbean foundation that was
you know trying to convince Congress to
send weapons to the Contras they hired
Michael Adeem one of these sort of
architects of the Iranian
for hostages to write a pamphlet for
them you know to try to convince
Congress they raise a lot of money there
all over Oliver North's White House
Diaries it's interesting that all of the
news accounts about the gulf and
caribbean foundation never mentioned
William Blake more and he was the power
behind it the Chairman because they had
hired dan Kuykendall who's originally
from Texas and became a congressman from
Tennessee
now lobbyists in Washington DC to be
their frontman and all the accounts
everywhere I mean everywhere just talk
about Dan Kuykendall know in gulf and
caribbean is is in the middle of that
chart the investigators founded Oliver
North's safe diagramming the contra aids
system and no one ever said who's behind
Gulf is always being a Kirk you know
they've never got to William Blake more
okay a Blakemore married a Houston all
man's daughter the guy named Jim Silver
Dollar West used to carry silver dollars
around his pocket and hand them out to
people his other daughter married a man
who was one of the powers behind Trey
core the defense firm in Austin Texas
and missus when of issues closest
associates Jack Trotter was also
involved in tre court
Trotter was one of the trustees of the
West daughters trust okay
the attorney who represented the
interests of the Somoza family from
Nicaragua in Houston was also another
trustee of this trust and represented
the interest of William Blake Maureen in
other other places so Blake more very
strongly connected to Bush to the
Mischer circle in Houston and to the
Contras Blake Moorhead has a ranch in
West Texas called the Iron Mountain
Ranch
it's got a five thousand foot landing
strip a number of investigators has
tracked gun shipments and training of
guerrilla forces on the iron mountain
range in fact one investigator Jean
Wheaton who used to work for the
Pentagon as a criminal investigator said
that iron mountain ranch was also
connected into the LA HEDIS landing
strip at the CIA was a drunk the drugs
and guns operation yes now when you ask
blame or what about you know guns and in
the training it's your rant he he will
say something like well I can't you know
I was involved in lots of stuff with the
army and armed forces and some of its
classified and obviously I can't talk
about it
he doesn't specifically deny it mansour
qurani
and orrin hatch matzah Ronny is a
Lebanese native who lives in Houston
he's not well-known Houston he's sort of
low low profile but he he was in I found
matzah Ronnie looking for Robert Corson
I went to the courthouse I started
looking at all the records of Robert
Corson and there I found monster Ronnie
doing a deal and deal with Robert course
of course in is the CIA mule the Correa
who is helping to launder money for the
CIA for iran-contra operations well you
know whatever they were using it for it
also measures former son-in-law
well the savings alone in South Texas
that was him that was busted out and I
want this one Florida land deal it had
all these CIA mob people involved in
money going to the Islanders II probably
or possibly to buy weapons for the Iraq
and Iran anyway who Ronnie married a
woman from Utah a Mormon woman and
actually he converted to Mormonism and
he's involved in lots of land deals in
the Houston area including land deals
with Lamar savings and Mainland savings
he got lots of money from mainland
savings during the investigation of
mainland savings Hirani came under
attack by the federal regulators or in
his good friend Orrin Hatch the senator
from Utah wrote a
to the federal regulators asking and
almost telling them threatening them to
back off of Monterrey Ronnie because if
they know that they could get into
trouble and as far as I know no lawsuit
no action was ever taken against monster
- Ronnie it was interesting he called
you up and he threatened you I think it
was with a ten million dollar lawsuit he
said even as we speak my lawyers are
that's going up the lawsuit were you
nervous no I had some additional
ammunition I started asking questions
about weapons deals the Middle East I'm
at the CIA about the Mossad he used to
brag about his connections to the Mossad
the Israeli intelligence agency his
connections to Robert Carson Mike
Atkinson who was one of courses
associates is also doing weapons deals
and his connection to maintenance
savings will mark savings and at the end
of that conversation after asking those
questions he decided he was going to
forget about filing a lawsuit this is
Janice Bernstein we're talking to Pete
and about his new book the the of the
Muffy of the CIA and George Bush and
it's going to be out it's just coming
out right now it's entre pulsky press
out of New York City this is a special
radio broadcast in which we're talking
about the collapse of some of America's
most powerful SNL's and banks I want to
ask you just about a few more people
for instance what about Jim bath and his
relationship to land land Benson the son
of Lloyd Bentsen and to George W Bush
the son of the President
yeah well Jim bath is one of the most
interesting characters in the book of
title of the chapter on baths called the
CIA takes a bath it's interesting as
someone else who's worked researching
Jim bath wrote a little article for
magazine I can't remember who but his
title of it was Bush takes a bath
Jim bath owns an airplane operation in
Houston he's originally from Louisiana
came to Houston when he was 29 years old
with you know the shirt on his back
and went to work at the Air National
Guard in Houston flying airplanes while
he was there he met George W Bush the
president's son and also Lloyd Bentsen
the third the Senators son and he
started working for Atlantic aviation
which is owned by the DuPont family the
DuPont family shows up number
connections the CIA and connections of
the Florida land deal I hope we talk
about it in a minute he then had met
land Benson the other senator's son
through Lloyd the third they went into
the real estate business together in 76
and bought and sold land and apartments
and and continued although they claimed
that they had separated after a couple
of years they can bath continued to use
the bath Benson letterhead even up until
a couple of years ago he was sending
letters to the feds under the bath
Benson letterhead he also had been I
believe in there's a credible testimony
from one of his former partners that
George Bush when he had when Bush had
been director of the CIA in the night
1976 had recruited bents bath to be a
CIA asset to keep track of some Saudi
Arabians who were investing in the
United States through bath one of these
was just indicted for his role in BCCI
scandal bath also borrowed money from
Lamar savings and Mainland savings and
he got into trouble the loan went bad
but mainland savings bailed him out and
he ended up the person who ended up
taking out over this loan was monster
irani that mainland in a mob loan broker
at mainland had brought in once again
mainland is the one that Baker may have
interceded in right and tied in to Misha
I mean mr. finance the stock on mainland
and and connected to many other mafia
and CIA people
baths also on an airplane company called
skyways aircraft leasing that was
incorporated in the Cayman Islands and
when you research the incorporators on
this company the people that started it
up you find it was the same people that
started up a company called IC and
became Intel cooperation that was in the
middle of Oliver Norris money laundering
for the Contras and no investigator were
you with the tower Commission or the
congressional investigation ever went
down the Cayman Islands were ever tried
to find out who these people were
this program is distributed by the
Pacifica Radio Archive for information
about obtaining a cassette copy called
the Pacifica Radio archive at eight
hundred seven three five zero two three
zero that's 800 seven three five zero
two three zero the Pacifica Radio
archive this is Janice Bernstein and
we're back talking with Pete Bruton the
author of the Mafia the CIA and George
Bush recently released by SPI and
distributed by Hurst Pete let's go to
another part of the story we've been
talking about the essence your
investigation the relationship between
the CIA the Mafia organized crime if you
will and some of the most powerful
politicians and movers and shakers in
American corporate life but there's
another story here and that has to do
with the roadblocks and all the hurdles
that you had to overcome to gather the
material and to actually to get it out
into the public eye both that as a
journalist for the Houston post and then
writing a first for Simon & Schuster and
then ultimately for the publisher that
you're with now so let's start with the
Euston Post I understand and that you
had a real struggle getting some of the
information out I imagine some of the
information that had to do with Walter
Misha I remember when I first
interviewed you I brought up the subject
of Walter Misha and you went from a very
talkative man to a very silent person
now I know that in part that was because
you were in the middle of the
investigation I also imagine it was
because you couldn't get those stories
into your own paper you want to talk
about the struggle you've had at the
Houston post sure the struggle began way
before Walter Mischer began at the the
initial stories that Greg C and I wrote
for the Houston post about mainland
savings and some mafia involvement and
Malin savings we we encountered some
encountered some resistance from the
post attorney's the post law firm that
that they used to read stories for
liable considerations
it's Fulbright & Jaworski which is one
of the major law firms in this country
Jaworski of course was the Leon Jaworski
Watergate prosecutor a very famous man
full-ride Jaworski is a very powerful
law firm and they are the Houston post
lawyers and the stories that I that we
wrote for Malin savings the lawyers at
flo rida Jaworski would read those
reliable considerations and they put up
some resistance to some of those one in
particular was about one of these New
York money brokers that were that were
involved with mainland savings Gregg and
I had gone up to New York City we found
that that
Martin Schwimmer who was Mario rindas
partner in brokering money all over the
United States the savings in those they
would collect excuse me collect money
from credit unions and and pension funds
and distribute that in an investment
broker it into savings and loans across
the country and in exchange that would
usually require these decimals to make
loans to their partners in the first
place they got caught was in in Kansas
City in the case we just talked we
talked about Indian Springs State Bank
now it's good for Honda cement right out
of jail free card scam and and Mario
render just to remind people is the sort
of the mob figure who are seized on
deregulation and even before
deregulation to use these SNL's as his
own cash cows brokers really using
broker deposits and kickbacks from this
deposit that's correct
and he was indicted later convicted on a
scheme that involved mainland savings
they were brokering union pension funds
and the mainland savings and the
prosecutors in in Brooklyn that were
going after
Rendon Schwimmer said that they'd almost
always in found that their deposits were
linked to loans in other words wouldn't
render sure to put money in s now they
would require that the SN L didn't make
loans to their associates just very
briefly say what the broker deposit is
it's just what I said they would they
would collect money from Cranky's and
pension funds and and bundle it in two
hundred thousand dollar packages so it
was covered by deposit insurance and
then they would basically buy a CD at a
at a savings donor put that money into a
savings alone in them s Nell would then
used that money to make loans I mean
that's where they got a lot of their
money and they would require that those
loans be made to people with who they
wanted those loans to be made that's
correct
now one of Renta's associates was Adnan
Khashoggi who got a huge sixty eight
million dollar loan Oh actually they
from mainland savings and here remedy is
brokering money in but we didn't know
that at the time well we just knew
rented Schwimmer and
they were tired of the Mafia and we
wondered if there were any loans
connected to Mario Renda and and Martin
Schwimmer's deposits in the mainland
well the first actually the first rattle
out of the box the first people we're
investigating these New York apartments
indicators who had taken some 100
million dollars out of mainland and so
here they work they're from New York
render shrimp from New York we thought
maybe this was the connection maybe
there was a link so we went up to Long
Island in New York City and to
investigate these people and the head of
the apartment syndication group was a
man named Howard Pulver so we went to
see him we finally found him it took us
a while to actually find out where he
lived he lived in Kings Point Long
Island which was a very ritzy suburb on
the North Shore of Long Island and
Tolliver lived in a house that was
secluded you couldn't see it from the
road he had a no trespassing sign at the
front of the road leading to his house
and the name on the mailbox in front of
it on the road was someone hadn't lived
there in 13 years and we become his huge
mance got a glass dome over an indoor
swimming pool a pond out in front big
cars and motor homes in the parking lot
and we went to talk to the Pulver he
gave us ten seconds to get off his
property so we're investigating trying
to look at the the public documents
trying to find any connection between
Pulver and Rendon made Palmer had a
partner named Tony Pedone so we're
looking at issues between Pedone and
Renda couldn't find anything
so then we said well let's look at
Martin Schwimmer let's go talk to him
he had tremor had been laundering money
for the Lucchese a mafia crime family
and he was a PhD author so we go we
thought he lived at Kings Point - so
we're driving up trying to find
Schwimmer's house we find us is the
street lives on we're driving down the
street
we're almost there this house we look on
the Left we see the back of this huge
mansion with a glass dome over it it's
Howard Pulver's house their neighbors
they live close to each other in this
very secluded area of Kings Point Long
Island and you know we knew we had
something there here we have Schwimmer
brokering maybe a hundred million
dollars in the mainland savings and his
Kings Point neighbor taking maybe a
hundred million dollars out of mainland
savings okay so we knew that there was
likely a connection there anyway Gregg
and I wrote this big long story about
this including a lot of background
information about Howard Poehler Mario
Rendon Martin Schwimmer the attorney at
full reverse key almost killed that
story and got most of the details taken
out I mean he particularly was defending
Howard Culver you know you're you know
you can't say this about this man a lot
of this man the other it was a very hard
just getting the fact that if they were
neighbors and in both done did business
with mainland savings I found out much
later the full ride to work II was
representing Howard Hoover's company in
a lawsuit at the same time I imagine
they got a very mr. Pulver probably got
a phone call very quickly I don't know I
mean I don't know speculate on that but
there was a conflict of interest there
okay then when I started the CIA stories
they were basically finished in the fall
of 1989 he should have run in 1989 and
the reason they didn't was because for
Ron Jaworski was protesting and and
giving us a lot of trouble and saying we
couldn't run the stories particularly on
Walter mission I mean they were trying
to make us given the argument that
Mischa was in the public figure which
was absolutely nonsense and trying to
keep the miss your stuff out and when we
started running the stories eventually a
February 1990 we should have run the
Mischer stories first because that's it
that's where it makes sense you know it
all hinges on mission I mean you can tie
everything that you look at back to
Misha and his circle you know powerful
Houston businessmen and politicians and
without Mischer it's hard to make sense
that of a lot of this because he's the
key but he's the key middleman and they
didn't run Misha because of what floor
Ron Jaworski was you know telling those
that know what was her what was the
attitude of your editors were they just
accepting this as because it didn't
sound like it was illegal they weren't
making a legal justification for not
running the stories it was more of a
personal and a philosophical well they
were saying that they would not sign off
on the stories on Mischer saying that
there were liable problems so and our
editors were saying well let's go ahead
and run this other stuff you know we can
do that later
so we've been begin running we had
Stefan Corson in Azima and Palmer
National Bank and it was sort of you
know spread out run sporadically rather
than as a series which I protested I
wanted to run it you know every day just
hit him every day was something new
and his result adjusting sporadically we
came in for a lot of criticism because
the first two stories I ran were very
weak and we're only intended to be run
is an introduction to the series along
with another major story that on a
Sunday then there would be another story
on Monday than another one on Tuesday
and as a result we you know we got a lot
of criticism because people just read
the first two stories and said there's
nothing here there's no there's no
details there's no you know backup
evidence and so finally we got all the
stories out by the fall of 1990 and I
went back to working on the Misha stuff
to try to get it in and we had some more
corroborating evidence and you know the
stories were good I wrote them
we had a sit-down meeting with Fulbright
& Jaworski they protested again I
answered their objections the editors
said they were going to run the stories
okay finally though it came Christmas
time and we're going to run them on
December 31st I was at my parents ranch
at the time not in Houston and full
rides wore ski lawyers basically would
not sign off on the story in and the top
editor who was new you know
went along with that rather than
overrule them now go back to the
beginning so the lawyers here are
becoming the executive editor right in
the final decision that's right you go
back to the beginning when when full
bribes were ski first read the miss your
stories back in the fall of 89
we took him we had a sit-down meeting
with the junior associate there at
Fulbright sworsky
and he starts criticizing the stories in
a very strong language and not language
like he usually uses very mild-mannered
person and so you know I started ringing
Bell you know it set off alarms with me
and I said I asked you immediately do
you just for my George Kennedy conflicts
of interest with this story stories you
know because something else was going on
wasn't normal behavior regardless of
what the content of the story was doing
he just did not act that way and he said
not that he knows of and the thing had
done work for him bank and him bank was
of course financing a lot of herman KBB
stuff but the impact no longer he
existed and been taken over by another
bank and so he didn't think any
conflicts of interest well they did they
had big time conflicts of interest and
he either did not check on it like he
had a duty to check particularly when I
asked him and if you checked had found
that they were representing Walter
majors company in a wrongful death suit
at the same time they were killing
Walter mr. stories at the Houston post
they had represent Walter bishops
company previously in a lawsuit and I
found out recently if you call out
Fulbright & Jaworski
and you asked to speak to the attorney
who handles Walter handles Walter
wishers interest he referred to an
attorney in their San Antonio office who
coordinates litigation for a Mischer
company there
so they have a conflicts of interest and
they either didn't research it if they
did they didn't tell us about it
okay share what you must have been
pretty angry at this point I was furious
could you share what was the dialogue
did you go and bring this to your
editors well what happened was when when
I was told you know around New Year's
Day shortly before that that full Ron
Jaworski would not sign up sign off on
the stories and that they weren't gonna
run them you know I just exploded I said
I bet this attorney who was a junior
associate it's time his job is on the
line he can't stop these stories he
won't make partner in full right to work
well six weeks later I've taken a leave
under it you know after they didn't run
the stories I took a leave of absence to
write the book six weeks later I was
sitting in a restaurant with two of the
top editors of post and what I'm told me
hey guess what miss junior associate
we're talking about just got made a
partner at full rides works so that's
when I started looking in depth at full
by Jaworski for conflicts of interest I
found a lot more full Ron Jaworski
Washington office represented Palmer
National Bank and a securities offering
this is the bank that was erroneous by
Herbert KBB tied in with intelligence
operation its channel contrast and here
they were full red dwarfs Keys
representing them a number of other
conflicts of interest I found four grams
worth key through the MD Anderson
foundation and laundered money for the
CIA
you know they represent it they had been
involved in a land deal involving Herman
KBB a number of others so I took all
this information to the Houston post
editors and told about you know you know
the I thought that they needed to know
this what I'd found out and you know I
shouldn't just sit on this information
well guess what the Houston post be what
I'm talking about it nothing they didn't
they apparently they questioned one of
the lawyers about it he gave them some
legal mumbo-jumbo that turned out not to
be accurate and they were apparently
satisfied with that and continued to use
full Ronnie Jaworski and that was one of
the reasons I did not go back to the
Houston post because anything I wrote
would have to go through full Ron
Jaworski did you ask your editors what
did you ask them about how this might
compromise the nature of freedom of the
press the open flow of information did
you get into this dialogue at all uh not
much I mean I probably would have said
you know we've just turned this
newspaper over to full Ron Jaworski you
know and you know you just don't they
would didn't respond to it why were they
so willing why wouldn't they change law
firms why would they so was this the
only law firm in town why did they need
this law firm one it's a fairly long
story I was sure it's it's particularly
relevant I mean that the Hobby family in
Houston used to own the Houston post OB
de Kaap hobby was a very influential
woman in Houston that she had been in in
FDR's cabinet she's married a Texas
Governor William P Hobby her son became
the lieutenant governor of Texas and was
lieutenant governor for many years bill
Hobby and in 1983 I believe they sold
Houston post to a group of Canadian
Canadians and had the Toronto Star trial
son
really interesting and good people we
had a lot of fun with working for the
Canadians and when they the Hobby family
left one of their people telling the
Canadians that they should get full Ron
Jaworski for their lawyers and the
Canadians hired them on their
recommendation and when William Dean
singleton bought the Easton posts from
the Canadians
he kept full right sworsky on the floor
brian's work he's a very influential
powerful firm and you know they can
protect you from a lot of things and I
think that the post like to have that
protection oh yeah there were some times
were you given even given that it it
really did it was demonstrated here that
the law firm was acting not in the best
interests of the paper or the people who
read the paper but just on their own
conflict of interest I mean didn't that
concern them that this might be a
problem in the future
I you know got no sense that that
concerned oh very much and as I say
that's one of the reasons I didn't go
back there besides it turning it over to
the law firm well what you know just a
little bit on the more philosophical
level what does that mean for freedom of
speech freedom of the press what does
that mean well you know it's just it's
terrible I mean the the lawyers become
the ultimate editors rather than
journalists and lawyers have entirely
different ways of thinking about things
entirely different motives entirely
different ends than journalists do I
mean our function is to get information
out to the public lawyers functions is
sort of to handle disputes between
people and you know the society our
society is not delegated editing
functions to lawyers but it's now come
to that I have to ask you one I just
have to ask you to speculate with me on
one other thing or maybe just reflect on
it no Leon Jaworski was called in after
the Saturday night Massacre in which
Richard Nixon
had Archibald Cox fired right and we
remembered that Elliot Richardson
resigned in protest refusing to fire Cox
and then and then there was another one
who refused to do it and then finally it
went to Solicitor General Robert Bork
who did fire Archibald Cox and Leon
Jaworski came in and there was a real
limiting of the investigation and I have
to wonder why they went to Jaworski well
yeah I want you to and and Jaworski
obviously had to know about the md
anderson foundation laundering money for
the CID Lorenz whiskey ran the MD
Anderson foundation so he was probably
involved without doubt and laundering
money for the CIA helping them by the
way the Hobby Foundation had the Hobby
family had a foundation that was also
doing the same money laundering for the
CIA
so in and I had people tell me that they
believe that jour ski had other
connections to the CIA in other words he
represented them in legal matters and so
here we have the same old story somewhat
tied in the CIA being brought in to head
or lead an investigation that touches on
the CIA if you know the CIA never got
really tied in to Watergate and it was
interesting that there were there seemed
to be a sort of agreement will let Nixon
go but we're not going to get into the
nature of the bombing the illegal
bombings of Cambodia and other related
CIA dirty tricks that ultimately were
revealed some degree by Church and black
yes and it took many more years to get
to them well you know in the Nixon
you've ever tried to threaten the CIA to
get them to call off the FBI
investigation you remember one of the
things he threatened the way he says you
know this whole Howard hunt Cuba thing
come on and there was a lot of
speculation it still is about what
exactly is he mean by that and some
people think he was talking about the
CIA hiring the Mafia to kill Castro and
you know that if that came out that's
that's nothing that it just is not
rageous I mean the government of this I
mean the agency of this government had
hiring organized criminals to do things
and of course that came out during the
church committee and these names came up
again in your above what sells traffic I
mean it's the same mixed urges and
though some of these people all right no
that wasn't the only roadblock so there
you were leaving the Euston post to
write a book you were called to New York
you were solicited by the president of
Simon & Schuster by the way this brings
us back to Watergate and part of that
story instead of one big story here and
you were called in I guess they saw some
of the articles that were being
published in the post and they had some
interest in you writing a book based on
these articles yes the way it happened
and I'm not sure if it you know you can
read anything into it but one of their
editors called me and said his father
had told him about some of my stories
that had appeared in a California
alternative newspaper and he wondered if
I could send them to him so I did this
was a summer of 1990 and we were right
in the middle of the story and I think I
just written the Palmer National Bank
story and I sent that them today he got
back to me it said he'd show them to
their top people including Alice Mayhew
who was the one of their top editors and
had edited all the President's Men by
Woodward and Bernstein and done a number
of best-selling books and they wanted to
talk to me so they flew me out to New
York City we had a very nice visit
and I told him basically what I was
doing and I had not given much thought
to writing a book and they had actually
slist me I didn't have an agent or
anything like that and the next day
Alice made you call me up said we'd like
to make you an offer would like to
you know having signed you up on a
contract to write a book for us and
we'll pay you $100,000 advance you know
it might add to is you know where do I
sign I mean here's the in the main
reason was that here was the top one of
the top editors considered top editors
in the country also I unless say going
into this I knew about the corporate
background of Simon & Schuster the fact
that Simon is Schuster was owned and is
owned by paramount communications
paramount communications was the former
Gulf and Western the big conglomerate
that one of the founders was a Houston
man named John Duncan and John Duncan's
brother is Charles Duncan who was a
secretary of energy I believe under
Jimmy Carter a former associate
secretary of the Defense Department and
these people tie in to the major circle
very closely okay they're connected to
Jack Trotter whose mission is very close
associate and involved in lots of
investments and one of the board members
of paramount communications is Hugh led
key who is the chairman board of
Pennzoil and one of George Bush's
closest friends and longtime business
associates they had sapota
Petroleum together back in the 50s and
so I just I knew this going in and I
thought it would just be really poetic
justice for a foot for simon & schuster
to do this book and it turned out to be
too good to be true because
assignments used to eventually refuse to
publish the book before the election how
did that how did that unfold I mean
here's a a publisher that offers you a
hundred thousand dollars advanced
usually it goes I imagine you got fifty
thousand right away so you had fifty
thousand in your pocket they had gone
fifty thousand in the read for this book
plus all the time they spent in terms of
editors and working back and forth on
that level so how did you find out they
didn't want to publish your book well
the book was dude the manuscript was due
in the summer of 91 and I sent it in
undone on the deadline date and about
two months later I get a four page
editing letter from Alice Mayhew saying
that you know it's great materials
wonderful you know in fact it's even
overwhelming and we think it needs to be
restructure to reorganize because it's
too hard to understand the way you've
got it structured now and and she
suggested a way to organize it that you
know I didn't particularly care for
although I I saw a similar way to do it
and so I wrote her back and said well
let me suggest something an alternative
way to do it and she agree they wrote me
later back wonderful great shape you see
unit said we think you've you've proved
what you set out to prove and tracing
the lineage of the SML debacle back to
the Mafia and the CIA and she said what
we think you've done economically you
know and in the way you suggested we
think we'll do it well I started working
allowed it it did work and I had to do
another different type of organization I
think works better now and that took
another couple of months and during this
time I'm in contact with one of Alice
Mayhew's associates and I by the way
when I was negotiating the contract with
Simon Schuster I wrote them in writing
and I said to him that this book has to
come out before the 1990 presidential
election because it's got a lot of stuff
on Bush and on Lloyd Bentsen and at that
time
there was lots of talk about Benson
being the Democratic nominee and they
agreed to move up their normal lead time
of 18 months to 12 months so the book
can be published in the summer of 92 all
right now during this time when I sit on
the manuscript I reminded of this in the
summer of 91 I said look as you can see
this book needs to go we talked about
needs ago for the presidential election
when I'm doing the restructuring
eye-contact ounces assistant and I'm
concerned I said I'm concerned that this
book be published before the election I
want to make sure we got enough time and
he said don't worry we can put it out in
two months when we get through advise
manuscript he says no problem so in
February I submitted a revised
manuscript and I don't hear anything
filling nothing in the meantime I've
been talking to Steve piezo and he tells
me there's there's this thing called the
fall list and publishes and they're
gonna publish in the second half of the
year and if you're not on that you're
not gonna get published so I wanted to
make sure and he said publishers are
drawing this list up right now so I
couldn't make sure I was on the list and
I called Alice and I sent her letters
and faxes and I got no response and I
talked to her assistant and I said you
know did you get the man he said he just
kind of breast oh yeah I got it I'll
read it when I get around to it you know
just kind of blew it off and I think
some of their attitude had changed for
some reason and no apparent reason that
their attitude toward the book had
changed so I couldn't get a whole thing
I couldn't get a whole analyst and
finally I called her secretary and said
I'm coming up there on March the 18th
making a point put it in her appointment
book oh you know I'm gonna fly up at my
own expense to talk to her
well two days before that she sends me
Alice sends me a fax saying we're going
to postpone our meeting till next week
I'm real busy hope that's okay
so I called up her secretary immediately
and that's when she put Alice on the
phone and I said hey this book needs to
go for the presidential election we got
to get moved and she said there's no way
we don't have time I'm not gonna I'm not
gonna crash this book which means put it
on a crash program to publish that
publish it early you know you know a lot
you know and I said I argued with her
it's College stuff about George Bush at
the American public nice no and her
reply was quote George Bush is gonna win
anyway close quote and was this when did
this is it March of this year George
Bush is gonna win anyway and then
another thing she said when I was
already informed about it she said quote
nobody reads anything in September in
October
close quote now I don't know what's
going on her mind you know whether what
her motives were whether she really
believed this I'll tell you that's what
she said to me to try to give a reason
why they weren't gonna polish this book
before the election
and that's when I made the decision I'm
getting out I'm tying another publisher
there were some other problems asaba
Schuster basically ended up breaching
the contract and so that gave me an out
and I terminated the contract and went
Sapolsky and she Polsky has just been
wonderful in getting this book out for
the election and they're publishing it
in there
sort of one of their sub SP is a yeah as
an affiliate Sapolsky publishers yes and
that's the book is coming out on SPI and
it's being motivated by her so it's
great and that's the the book we're
talking about right now is a George Bush
the Mafia and the CIA know what are we
talking about here close Joris the CIA
in the Mafia and we're speaking with
Pete Bruton and we're talking about the
struggle to get the book out and I guess
I want to ask you did you want to add
something to that
Horace okay is there something titles
okay I want to say ask you this paper
for this is the final question the you
talked about roadblocks in terms of the
Euston post you talked about roadblocks
in terms of publishing it and and by the
way on the cover of the book it's listed
this is the book that Simon & Schuster
wouldn't publish so look for that little
gold star what are the risks were there
oh you were dealing you were publishing
material about very dangerous people
people who are known not to let human
life stand in the way of their own
economic progress
were there any threats to your life were
there any times when you felt that your
life was in danger was this a risk I
mean going up there on Long Island and
approaching talking to sort of
mob-related people who were standing
there looking at you very angrily
barefooted well
you know that the mob is supposed to
have an unwritten code that they don't
they don't mess with policemen judges
and journalists they you know they
they've stepped over the line I'm at a
number of occasions but I think I kind
of snuck up on them and they weren't
really expecting anything and and by the
time that I'd done it it was too late
for them to do anything to stop it you
know in doing anything to me would just
give them more negative publicity I mean
bring more spotlight on them and that's
no reason they're supposed to leave
journalists alone I mean journalists can
just give them bad publicity
we can't convene a grand jury and indict
them and then serve as judge and jury
and put them in jail we could just write
information about them and the people
they really you know are in danger for
the Mafia are their business competitors
and witnesses against them they either
what those are ones they like to kill so
eh that's too late now really and where
any of your sources ever in danger know
while you were talking to them I'm sure
they were nothing so far has happened
any oh it's like I said I think they
always thought that none of this
information would really get out and
they were wrong
Pete Bruton perhaps the most significant
expensive comprehensive SNL mafia CIA
ripoff has to do with a particular
Florida land deal which seems to include
a cast of thousands or at least dozens
we're talking about we we have Walter
Misha back for another show we have
Robert Corson the CIA mule who was the
who owned vision bank we have the st.
Joe Paper Company we have DuPont people
in here we have Billy Team Garmin who's
Carson's mother or stepmother
mother mother and this goes on and on
and on so we want to talk about this and
we want to be very specific about who
the people are and this includes some of
the key CIA people and includes offshore
banking so on and so forth it's a
complicated affair but it's a very
important very expensive one to
taxpayers so why don't you give us an
overview on exactly what happened and
then we can get into who some of the
players are in 1986 the st. Joe Paper
Company which is the largest landowner
in Florida and it is owned by the Alfred
I DuPont testamentary Trust which is a
DuPont entity and the st. Joe Paper
Company in the largest sale of raw land
in Florida history so twenty-one
thousand acres for two hundred million
dollars to a two-bit Houston home
builder named Ike Atkinson and to
understand this deal you have to go back
to another deal earlier deal in Houston
Atkinson had come to Houston in the late
70s was a little home builder and had
met someone a woman from Kuwait who
introduced him to some big Kuwaiti and
Saudi businessmen and flew a concern
over to Kuwait and Saudi Arabia and he
gets involved with these people and is
representing some of their interests in
investing their money selling the things
in Houston now this apparently got him
involved with some you know really big
shots like Walter mission Walter mister
shows up on his financial statement in
like in 1983 is a reference
he also began to do weapons deals at
this time into the Middle East into Iran
and Iraq and Kuwait
the first big land deal that Atkinson
did was he bought Maryland Shopping
Center in Houston
it's an old well-respected shopping
center in the in the middle of a well
respected venerable Jewish community in
southwest Houston this owned about a
Meyer family it's not a modern shopping
center it's not totally enclosed but
it's in a very good location on the
south on the wet Southwest loop in
Houston the shopping center was worth
probably about twenty five million
dollars the matriarch of the Meyer
family is Liotta Meyer Hess she said the
the next generation of second-generation
her children and nieces and nephews and
their children wanted to sell the
shopping center and get their money
there was a four million dollar mortgage
on it so you know you take that off and
it's to them about twenty twenty-one
million dollars they would get and mrs.
mrs. Hess did not want to sell and she
said well I only sell if we get thirty
five million dollars for it
no one would pay thirty five million
dollars for it
all the people who do shopping centers
and invest in that kind of thing would
only go like twenty five million dollars
and one day miss Hess is going downtown
to see her attorneys Fulbright &
Jaworski when she meets her old friend
Walter Mischer and Mischer starts asking
about the shopping center and tells her
she ought to sell it you know she's got
no business running that's y'all selling
well a couple of weeks later Mike
Atkinson appears in mrs. mrs. office
with his attorney saying they want to
buy the shopping center and that Walter
Mischer had sent them and they were
gonna pay thirty five million dollars
and Miss has did not like
Agatha and Collins she knew that Center
was not worth thirty five million
dollars they didn't ask to see her
financial statements or the leases or
anything they didn't ask any questions
they just wanted to buy the shopping
center and so but hurt her relatives the
next generation wanted their money and
now they get 10 million more they get 30
million dollars in cash for a shopping
center and it's worth 25 and so they
sold now the same day Atkinson by when
he buys the shopping center he buys it
in the name of a company in the Isle of
Jersey which is a tax haven Island but
in the English Channel between England
and France that the people go to to hide
and you know keep their money from taxes
and the company's name was Barbados and
it's supposed to be representing some of
atkinson's Arabian partners well he buys
it in the name of our Vado's for thirty
five million dollars flips it the same
day to his company for 70 million
dollars and then the money that to
finance all of this came from Lamar
savings
what do you mean flips it to sold it
immediately solely to me no no added
value he just doubled the price on paper
for you no there's no economic reason
just to jack up the price the money to
finance the transaction came from Lamar
savings in Austin
Lamar savings was the same S&L it had
been involved with adnan khashoggi they
had taken special interest rate deals
with mario Renda and and other
questionable dealings and what happened
they they funded 47 million dollars cash
but the mortgage for the 47 million was
just half of the shopping center and
there were some other properties
involved as well as the surrounding
properties so essentially what Atkinson
had done
is it taken a shopping center is worth
25 million dollars and one day jacked up
it's a parent value to 100 million
dollars ok and the money came from a
savings and loan Varvatos assala Jersey
County made an instant profit cash
profit of 10 million dollars for doing
nothing absolutely nothing ten million
dollars goes to the ILA Jersey to these
supposed Arabs eventually some thirty
million dollars would go to the
Islanders e from the Maryland deal by
the way walter measures bank kicked in 5
million dollars that went to the
Islanders e Hurley kvd's Continental
savings 20 million dollars san jacinto
savings which was involved in a deal
with herman BB allied bank and
continental an earlier deal kicked in 5
million dollars another fraud riddled
S&L called delta savings kicked in a
little over 5 million dollars all of
this goes to the islands Rosie all right
that's the preliminary to the Florida
land deal because the next year
Atkinson goes to Florida meets with JP
Island who headed to st. Joe Paper
Company for the DuPont's and they decide
to sell him the 21,000 acres for 200
million dollars everybody every expert
has ever been questioned about that deal
said it was totally ridiculous that it
wasn't worth that money and the
development plans were you know were
just not there it was obviously either
stupid or a scam now they they ended up
when they when they consummated the deal
a company called Penhale Coast
investments ended up by making a sales
contract with st. Joe Paper Company and
then they were gonna flip it to Atkins
and
and the whole idea was to create a 20
million dollar profit that that Atkinson
would allegedly oh the ala Jersey so
they could get the money off the answer
that's why they did they would create
fake promissory notes that akun what a
kazoo would sign you know I owe you you
know our Jersey company 20 million
dollars and they would there would be no
value you mean they had not paid in 20
million dollars it was all bogus but
since it was on the island Jersey you
couldn't get to that to prove that it
was bogus
and then you just send 20 million
dollars to our Jersey and they canceled
the IOU and nobody's the wiser they did
that with Marilyn and they did it with
the st. Joe Paper Company deal and so
the person that set up panhala coast
investments and Leslie the front this
deal for the Arabs in Atkinson was a
Miami attorney named Lawrence Freeman
and Lawrence Freeman has a long colorful
history with CIA and mafia people he was
large Freeman was a money launderer for
Santo Trafficante
the mob boss of Florida and he was the
law partner of Paul Helliwell one of the
original founders of CIA was the the top
operatives and ages for the CIA we had a
lot to do with the inventing of the sort
of wash or launder and moving you know
working with negotiable instruments I'm
gonna get to that hello L started
Cassell Bank and Trust with a Chicago
attorney named Burton Kanter who
represented some mob interests and
Castle Bank and trusted in the cayman
islands and laundered money for the mob
in the CIA Freeman was hired by hello
West company and then became the
in-house counsel to Castle Bank and
Trust and then left to start his own
practice where he was more money for
mafia people and CIA people he's brought
in to front this deal after his company
signs the sales contract then he assigns
his interest to a concern and then a
month later he is indicted for
laundering drug money for a man named
Jack Duvall
turns out to have connections to the CIA
okay they do the deal the money comes
eighty million dollars comes from hill
financial savings in Red Hill
Pennsylvania which has done of deals
with two hundred million dollars where
the deals with Richard Ross Miller the
Denver man connected to Herman KBB has
done deals with mainland savings in a
Detroit mafia associate that was dealing
with mainland has done other deals with
with Vernon savings and Delta savings
they come they're brought in to do the
main financing they need twenty million
dollars more that comes from Robert
Corson's vision bank savings and that
basically ended up busting vision bank
savings the bulk of the money almost
seventy million dollars in cash went to
st. Joe Paper Company but you just
remind people with a few details who
Robert Carson is mama Corson is the CIA
mule and Walter mashers former
son-in-law you know he was in business
with Richard brain he was associated
with John riddle and Mike Atkinson so
Atkins and then of course defaults on
the loan I mean he was supposed to
develop a consumer supposed to have all
these grandiose development plans for
the twenty one thousand makers he
doesn't pay off the loan to he'll
financial st. Joe Paper Company
forecloses on the deed they take back
the best 1802 shoreline acres and they
also got almost seventy million dollars
in cash they really made out they came
out way ahead they were the big
beneficiaries of this land deal another
probably seven or eight million dollars
went to the Islanders he the same
company they got the money out of
Ireland and the same companies that
Lawrence Freeman was using to launder
Jack teuvos drug money and the same
companies John dick
the Denver businessman tied into the
Silverado crowd was using for his
business interests I mean these same ila
Jersey companies were doing all this at
the same time and we found out later
that there were some invoices in the
money that the 30 million dollars or so
the win theology it looked like 10
million of that was used to buy Volvo
trucks for Kuwait the thing is that the
Kuwaiti company would not needed to use
Mike kesson to buy 10 million dollars
of Volvo trucks they hadn't think I
could just go to their bank or pay cash
we found out later that in the BCCI
scandal that invoices for lift trucks
were used as a secret code word for
missiles weapons and in the
investigation of the big Annelle scandal
in the atlanta bank branches asset a
bank that got the guarantees from the US
government to make loans to Iraq that
they then apparently used to buy weapons
that one of the code words for scud
missile launchers were Bovo trucks now
these were these so-called volvo trucks
that were missiles or missile launchers
were going to Kuwait going to Iraq going
to Iraq yes
[Music]
and you know it's it's it's all alright
circumstantial evidence but it's very
strong I mean it's the kind of thing
that a prosecutor would want to jump on
immediately and nobody has I mean
Atkinson got convicted sentenced to 11
years in jail with good time he will be
out in three and he's got you know May
and salted offshore so he's not in he
didn't you didn't have to talk of course
I'm a probably cop a plea and he may go
to trial I don't know he won't get you
know he gets slapped on the wrist do a
few years and be out there's no
incentive for these people to talk and
tell what happened when would these
missiles have gone to Iraq was in 86
even maybe earlier than 85 86 this is a
time you know where Iran Iraq and this
huge war and the United States is
basically supplying both sides I mean we
wanted them basically to kill each other
offer you know maintain the balance of
terror and we could supply both sides
with weapons and everybody makes out of
course we know that scud missile
launchers were later used on american
troops when we in there in the Gulf War
so this is another possible aspect of a
racket yes in which transfers are
happening through the BNL bank and this
is a situation I mean I can't help
remembering we're talking about your
book the Mafia of the CIA and George
Bush and people who have looked at Iraq
yet know that George Bush
played an extensive role personally and
with his administration in facilitating
this these loans for Iraq essentially
what it came down to was George Bush
made these weapons available he made it
possible for act to buy them with US
backed tax dollars and then he attempted
to cover it up so is there any
connection here between the
administration turning a blind eye or I
don't know we don't know yet I think
that that bears investigation
so what else do we need to know about
this
so is Walter Mischer liable in any way
for this well the department do are the
DuPont's are worth investigating on this
so the question is you know what did
they noted they were they just innocent
dupes that allowed their land you know
they made out like bandits I mean in the
money they got was used to build up st.
Joe Paper Company you know to expand
their paper mill to buy you know long
term investments and CDs that's taxpayer
to us our money that's when it went for
now were they innocent dupe so we're
like they part of it you know their
other connections CIA connections to the
DuPont's and we know that they had to
know they were getting more money than
their land was worth was it
we don't know I mean the prosecutors
have not gone after st. Joe Paper
Company and the people here that were
involved in this deal and to this day
st. Joe was just doing fine
oh yes and and their supposed most of
their see they are owned by a
testamentary trust who's beneficiary is
the Nemours foundation that runs
hospitals for crippled children that's a
thousand one's supposed to get the money
but other seventy million dollars only
if two or three million dollars was
eventually funneled on through the
foundation all of it almost all it was
kept within the company all right Thank
You Pete Bruton we've been talking about
the Mafia the CIA and George Bush and we
wish you the best of luck on your own
endeavors thank you
we're talking with Pete Bruton the
author of the Mafia the CIA and George
Bush just out on SPI press distributed
by Hurst look for it in your book
shelves it's worth a read this is Dennis
Bernstein and I am here with Susan burns
Pete will Northrop an Israeli military
intelligence officer and see a CIA asset
said once and this is in your book you
don't know where the CIA stops and where
the Republicans start what do you think
he meant by that I think winning when
Carter was Jimmy Carter was president
you know he brought in Stansfield Turner
as a CIA director and the idea they
wanted to start a clean house this was
after the Church Committee hearings were
all the stuff about the CIA's you know
operations and domestic illegal domestic
surveillance assassination of foreign
leaders
I mean people wanted to see I cleaned up
and you know stansky o-tar came in and I
think they had what they called a
Halloween Massacre when he got rid of a
number of covert operators including
people like Ted Shackley and Thomas
Klein's
they were involved with Ed Wilson the
renegade CIA agent and these people went
quote off the reservation but they sort
of continued to do you know covert
operations and many of them worked in
the Bush Reagan campaign against Jimmy
Carter and and when Reagan took over
these people sort of continued to do a
lot of them weren't brought back in but
they continued to do covert operations
and and and and course and continue to
do this also and I think you know he's
talking about that the Republicans the
the CIA renegades were really working
for the Republicans to get rid of Carter
and to continue a lot of the foreign and
domestic operations that were supporting
a lot of the right-wing businessmen in
this country and so I think that's what
he's talking about it was when when
Reagan Bush came in you know then all
sudden korsun stock goes up and you know
and he said you just can't tell you know
some of there's other all Republicans
and they all got involved in these
covert operations do you think that if
Clinton gets elected will the power
structure be different will
well Clinton will couldn't go with along
with what's been happening over the past
12 years I think that's that's a big
question that hasn't been asked and
needs to be asked and reporters should
be trying to find out if Mischer at all
have wormed into the clinton-gore
campaign and that these people do not
like to take chances they don't like to
gamble politically love they like to
cover their bets they want to make sure
that regardless of who wins they have an
end and that the whoever wins is gonna
let them operate like they've always
been operating and so a you know a real
big question is who is doing that in the
clinton-gore campaign who is their front
man how have they insinuated themselves
are they doing it with hard money or
they doing with soft money you know
because you know they're doing it now
back in in the early spring of this year
when Clinton was having problems we
weren't sure what was gonna happen with
the Democrats Clinton said that if he
has to back out or withdraw for any
reason he's throwing his support behind
Lloyd Bentsen and we know how Lord
Benson is connect to these people and
also there I've heard talk that if
Clinton wins that Benson is going to get
a very high-ranking cabinet position so
it may be Benson is is the frontman for
these people and it's probably the
reason also that you may not see the
Democrats really publicizing my book
because you know I didn't want to pull
any punches and I wanted to talk about
Lloyd Bentsen also I also say if the
Democrats had won in 1988 the title of
the book would have been the Mafia the
CIA and Lloyd Bentsen because he is the
you know he and Bush are two
interchangeable peas in a pod so there
seems to be a difference between Clinton
and the stance that Jimmy Carter took or
the stance that Kennedy took a guard in
the CIA no one's ever asked Clinton you
know what is he gonna do about to see
what is this policy on the CIA you know
is he going to get rid of covert
operations or tone them down it you know
like it was set up to be just as
intelligence gathering operation is he
gonna expand them what you know what's
what's his attitude toward the CIA you
know there have been a number of
articles Alexander Coburn great media
critic definitely left-of-center has
characterized Clinton on foreign policy
as being to the right of George Bush and
might be in in fact a real supporter of
covert action I mean we know that there
was a major as you know there was a
major operation going on in Mena
Arkansas which included Barry seal the
Contras the drugs the CIA in the hole
the same old story yes and that
operation course was was shut down at
the federal investigation that operation
was shut down at the federal level and
the state police or there's someone
working very hard I've never been able
to get too far you know it's did Bill
Clinton know about this it's a good
question
in your book you describe many layers of
protection between these the mafia
dealings the CIA covert actions these
SNL dealings this whole story a lot of
layers of protection between that
information and the public and how do
you think the press has handled this
whole SNL situation and what are some of
the reasons for why they've handled it
the way that they have generally
speaking is very poorly I mean there are
some exceptions
I think the Dallas Morning News did a
pretty good job on the daisy chain of
SNL's in texas connected to harmon KBB
the book inside job by Steven P so Mary
frikar and Paul molo was very good I
mean in nailing down the the fraud Ella
health fraud was a primary cause and the
connections of the politicians but other
than that the mainstream press not
talking about the New York Times The
Washington Post The Wall Street Journal
and the big TV the network's did not do
a good job
and you know there's a reason for that
it's it was a very difficult scandal to
cover
I mean you it wasn't like you could get
a press release handed to you on a
silver platter the people inside the
Washington Beltway didn't knew about it
were involved with it they were not
gonna tell their favorites or you know
the CIA wasn't gonna go the Washington
Post and say let me let us tell you
about how we were involved in the S&L
scandal so it wasn't like there were any
big sources on this it was bipartisan so
neither party wanted it out and in the
records of documents that reveal the
story are either confidential and not
public or they're hidden away in little
county courthouses back in the
hinterlands of this country very
difficult to dig out so that the big
press reporters that cover big scandals
are gonna have a hard time doing this
kind of of scandal you people and you've
been criticized many in many instances
by some members of the mainstream press
has pumping up a story that's not really
they're unnamed sources refusing to
identify who it is that you're talking
to which law enforcement says this that
and the other thing what's your response
to that well first of all you they need
to read the book I will agree that the
number of stories that came out of the
Houston post were rather short on detail
and I hope we can get into that later I
mean it wasn't because I wanted them to
be that way but I think if you read this
book you're not gonna ask where's the
beef I think this book is very well
documented there are some anonymous
source I hate anonymous sourcing I've
tried to keep it to a minimum you cannot
do a book about the CIA without using
anonymous or the Mafia without using the
anima sources people are afraid of these
entities and the people who are in law
enforcement that are still in law
enforcement are afraid for their jobs if
they start talking about this publicly
but
I've always tried to have it at least
two or three sources on anything I said
and I think the anonymous sourcing on a
book like this is is really not that
much and and not let the key stuff I
don't think any of the key stuff is
anonymous sources a lot of the
difficulty I understand in writing a
book like this and doing investigations
like this is that a lot of the documents
are not public information the financial
documents of these savings and loans and
all CIA are a lot of CIA documents are
not public and the only people that can
make them public is Congress Congress is
supposed to be representing the
interests of the American public and
this is a big story I mean 500 billion
dollars is unaccounted for why isn't
anybody in Congress asking questions
that's one of the you know the big
number one question on this this story
is where did the money go who got it and
what it was what was it used for no one
in Congress has ever asked that question
and I don't know of any reporter that
has ever asked that question no one in
the Justice Department seems to care and
the only way you can track the money is
to look at the documents that came out
of the savings of the loan closing
documents the the title telling
disbursement documents that's how you
find out where the money went and those
documents are not public they're
protected by bank secrecy laws Bank
confidential information laws and
Congress has the power to make those
public and they should because this is
our money this is our tax dollars we're
talking about if there had been no
taxpayer bailout then I can see why
these documents would be kept secret but
since this was a taxpayer bailouts our
tax dollars we deserve to know where the
money went and Congress should open up
these records and no one as Congress has
ever brought this up and if we want to
keep this from happening again the best
way to
is to make these documents public so the
crooks know that the public can look at
these documents you know it's very
interesting we've been talking a lot
about the CIA and how the CIA operates
in secrecy but isn't it true that in
many instances it's it's easier to get
documentation about what the CIA does
then what happens in the back rooms of
banks because banks for instance have
certain loopholes around the Freedom of
Information Act yes absolutely and you
know it's the whole idea of a banks
involvement in covert operations is
something that needs to be explored
because of the double layer of secrecy
that's there and the CIA during the
congressional investigation on less
stories a couple of years ago a CI
admitted that five of the individuals
I've named in my stories have done work
for them and for the financial
institutions they had used but only for
quote normal business well the CIA
doesn't pick these banks and say these
loans out of a hat they're the ones that
they trust and know we're gonna help
them and not give them any static and
and that they've used in the past do you
think the public will ever ever really
know on a wide scale you know how in you
know normal households that people will
really know what this money was used for
and what the CIA is doing no I don't
think so I think is it - but you know
what damage to many people in Washington
DC they just can't afford to have that
kind of information now do you find a
lot of it coming back to their camp
their own campaign coffers so I I really
don't think less there's you know people
march on Washington I don't think it's
gonna happen
the House Intelligence Committee
investigated the connection between the
CIA and organized crime and the SNL's
and I understand that Daniel child's the
former comptroller the CIA became the
head the staff
director of that same Committee just
before the investigation how how is the
CIA able to place people like child's in
these positions
well the House Intelligence Committee is
basically the lap dog of the CIA and has
been since the church you know in
hearings back in the middle 70s and the
CIA basically can control the flow of
information in the only and I like to
say if you'd been up to the House
Intelligence Committee the American
public would have never known about
iran-contra because Oliver North had all
went up before that committee you know
and lied to them with impunity and no
one on the committee said or did
anything to try to get to the truth and
they did basically the same thing on the
CIA investigation
I had began calling the CIA for comment
in the late fall of 1989 on my stories
and I had assumed that they were going
to run in 1989 they were delayed by
basically the Houston post law firm I
think we'll take a talk about in a
little bit but the CIA knew and I was
working on these stories and we're gonna
run them in got a fall of 1989 in
January 1990 Daniel child's comes over
as being the chief financial officer of
the CIA who testified before the
iran-contra committee who was very close
to William Casey comes over to head the
staff of the House Intelligence
Committee he'd also worked in on the
Senate Intelligence Committee back
during the church committee
investigation days in the middle 70s
one month later six weeks later after he
comes to the committee my stories come
out and the investigation begins he's
basically in charge of it although he
tries to keep a low profile and you know
and stay out of the limelight you know
he's got three or four attorneys up
there that supposedly are doing the best
and what I've admitted to me that never
done an investigation like that before
now what they were involved in was you
know budgetary matters regarding the
CIA's budget never done investigation
like that before and child's can
basically manipulate them they come out
and whitewash the whole thing based on
of course what the CIA tells them they
never did track any of the money
they didn't interview any of the people
that I named I don't believe I went up
there and talked to him and they just
sat there and grimaced at me you know
and just frowned at me the whole time I
was talking to and tell them who to call
and you know what to look for they never
tracked any the money which was the main
thing then they come out and say you
know there's no evidence for any CIA
involvement particularly in connection
with any fraud and even though the CIA
says they have these connections to
these institutions individuals they say
it was all on the up and up and
therefore we shouldn't have a full-blown
investigation all right they come out
with that in the winter of 1990 after my
stories have been running all year long
two months later after they finished
their investigation Dan Charles quits
the committee goes back to the CIA as a
special assistant to the CIA director so
he's only there for this investigation I
mean it looks to me like he was
specifically brought in for damage
control on the SOL investigation I
believe you've investigated that this is
a this is an unusual situation where the
CIA comes in and infiltrates I believe
you mentioned in your book that a
similar thing happened with the
iran-contra situation yes well I've
basically got that information for you
Dennis Tom Pogue are was brought in as
one of the chief investigators for an
encounter committee and polgr of course
was I believe a 25 year CIA veteran in
head
hedid stations all over the world for
the CIA and he was brought in and
basically said going in and there was no
CIA involvement in iran-contra and of
course we found out now that I mean it
was basically a CIA operation and Oliver
North was working for the CIA and
serving as their cut out in front man
also it's interesting though that Pagar
is a a member or director advisory
directory of a company outside why some
VC called part of us and parvis does
international intelligence operations
for four big businesses and
international companies another advisory
director is Richard Helms former CIA
director I think the former director of
the Defense Intelligence Agency is on
this director of this company and the
director that really sticks out like a
sore thumb and has no obvious and tells
us connections is a an attorney for a
Houston law firm the man's name is
Theodore Demetri he's with Vinson &
Elkins which is one of Walter measures
big law firms you know it's it's
interesting when you think and we think
about Tom polgr and we sort of wonder
why he would get the job for the
iran-contra committee to investigate CIA
dirty tricks you mentioned and that the
CIA was involved while there were three
station chief there was a Central
American Task Force chief there was the
director of the CIA there was the deputy
director of the CIA and we could go on a
long time to settle or we could go on
for a very long time at that I mean it
was a CIA operation without a doubt and
one wonders why
polgr could get that job I I called up
senator Rudman to ask him why did you
pick Tom Parker on the response that I
got was well he has the experience it
covering up things I guess
I don't know if we're gonna use this in
the interview but um when Tom polgr I
did track Tom Paul goes visit to Costa
Rica as you know there was a man by the
name of John Hall who was the CIA
director there and I'm sorry who was of
the CIA conduit for the Costa Rican
branch of the Contras the jumping off
point and I attempted to find out what
Hall was doing in Costa Rica and what I
found out oh god what polgr was doing
in Costa Rica and what I found out was
that he was interviewing reporters to
find out what they knew and he never
interviewed John Hall John hull by the
way shows up in Houston you know he met
with Oliver North's sometimes in Houston
deal with the Contras and he would go
out to a a nightclub and restaurant in
West Houston called catbirds and he
would be drinking with the boys and
including people like Kim Falls who was
used to be Charles Keating's pilot and
it worked for CIA proprietary companies
flying people like John riddle red cat
birds the reason they were out there
because it's owned by Robert Corson and
it was named the name cat bird was named
for Walter Mischer because Walter
Michener's favorite expression is
sitting in the catbird seat
you might remember there was also a
meeting in Houston after they the CIA
and apparently John Hall who has been
indicted for murder by the Costa Rican
government failed to knock off he didn't
pass Dora who was became unacceptable to
the CIA there was a meeting in Houston
in which they discussed what was going
to happen and how next they would go
after mr. Paz Dora could you comment on
the Justice Department as as another
layer of either you know failing to
protect us or twice there
could you could you comment on the
Justice Department and how have they
been how they pursue these kinds of
cases well the Justice Department has
has gone after the front men and the
straw men and they have they haven't
really put together the big conspiracy
investigations that are required and
it's interesting that the people at the
Justice Department that were doing this
and having great success in the S&L
investigations were the organized crime
strike forces because there were mafia
involvement and there were these large
conspiracies that they were used to
dealing with they were they were doing
quite well and what happened right in
the middle yes Annelle debacle and the
investigation the the reagan-bush
administration abolish --is the
organized crime strike strike forces and
so they they lost all of us many of
these these talented investigators and
prosecutors left the Justice Department
so you have you're left with the US
Attorney's in each city having
responsibilities and you've got these
extremely complicated land deals that
you have a hard time explaining to a
jury so what the Justice farm a lot has
done they try to get these people to cop
please to like you know falsification of
a record you know get them you know a
five year jail sentence or something
they'll do to their out and go on chalk
it up and go on to the next one and
they'll do these these small little
individual investigations and they're
not putting the big picture together
they're not asking whose benefit
benefited wearing the money go and so
they're getting the front men you know
the mustaches the beers the cutouts and
they're not getting the people who were
behind it and I think you know that
these cutouts are probably were set up
to take the heat and that's exactly
what's happening and and the Justice
Department is are going along with the
program either willingly or as
oops oh no if you could talk to me sort
of as a common US citizen somebody
without any real estate background
without any background in finance
because I know this kind of stuff this
is one of the big problems why it's not
more widely known because it's so
complicated how would you explain it to
someone without this kind of background
what's been going on here I like to use
sort of the black box explanation just
look at a savings and loan there's a
black box and don't even worry about
what was going on inside there just look
at them the taxpayers dollars in the
forms of deposit insurance coming in and
then the dollars going out and that's
all you need to look at dollars tax our
tax dollars coming in and where do they
go and who gets them and that's what you
have to look at where do they go and who
gets them we start looking at that you
find rich powerful people with
connections to the Mafia and the CIA now
you know I go into detail into the black
box a number of these because you
sometimes you have to to show the
criminal involvement and who did what
but it's not necessary to really
understand the black box you just got to
know that the way the basic scam worked
was the SNL's
would make a loan on a piece of property
that was more than the property was
worth okay then the borrower's say there
was a piece of property in Houston worth
a million dollars the S&L might loan two
million dollars for some guy to buy that
piece of property for 1.5 million so the
landowner has made half a million
dollars he or she is happy you know
they're not gonna complain you know the
borrower has made five hundred thousand
dollars and he takes off in Indy fossil
and loan and leaves so the S&L is stuck
they've loaned out two million dollars
they've got a piece of property that's
worth 1 million dollars the United
States taxpayers has essentially lost a
million dollars on that deal and the
whole lot all the complications come in
when the when everybody tries to jack up
the apparent value of this property
there are all sorts of ways you can do
it but that's where all the
complications come in making it look
like this property is worth two million
dollars when it's only worth 1 million
dollars and that's where the loss comes
in the difference between the loan value
and the value of the property and that's
a transfer of wealth to the landowner
and the borrower and see the the S&L is
gonna make profits on it too so they're
they're getting their cut off the top
the bar was getting his cut off the top
the landowner is getting money and the
rest of us are stuck with a bill and a
deregulation that happened in the early
80s opened the door for this kind of
thing now when deep regulation was
actually actually took place
what were the proposed benefits to it
well you know that the savings and loans
were caught in the so called interest
rate squeeze the interest rates were
going up that they had to pay to attract
deposits yet they were had all these
long-term mortgage loans that were
paying low interest rates so they were
getting caught in the squeeze now I'd
like to point out that the savings and
loans that stayed with home mortgage
lending and didn't get out all this wild
speculative stuff survived and made it
so they could just button down the
hatches and written it out and they
would have made it but the deregulation
quote/unquote allowed them to take the
money there are our tax dollars coming
in basically depositors that were backed
by tax dollars and lend it out on
speculative commercial ventures raw land
existing buildings and you had all the
wild stories about you know houses
getting you know loans owned in
you know Splashtown one of these water
ventures got a big loan from robert
courses savings money you know all the
while stories on what the money was used
for the deregulation allowed the SNL's
to lend on those things rather than just
own homes and now the they're proposing
to deregulate banks is that right what
do you what do you foresee happening if
that happens well I'm not too sure i
fraud basically killed the savings and
loans and fraud is what will kill a
financial institution very little else
will all of the financial institutions
in this country of it have been killed
and and failed have been have done so
basically because of fraud now if that
happened that's the only way a bank can
go down I mean these banks they're just
like having a printing press I mean you
just it's almost impossible to lose
unless you start you know printing
counterfeit money or something the power
structure in this country isn't I don't
think it's gonna shoot themselves in the
foot I mean these are their banks it
really wasn't their savings and loans
and the banks you know they really
profited from the SML debacle they had a
lot of underlying loans on this property
that got paid off by the SNL's okay and
they didn't care whether yesterday's
went down so I'm not as concerned about
that I mean if the bank if we have a big
bank bank failures if the taxpayer have
to dip into taxpayers dollars then you
know it all it means is that these
people are basically given up on this
country because I mean why is they
couldn't care less about anything else
the banks are their babies and I you
know the only thing in killing is frog
but these the heads of these banks are
participating in an international market
maybe they don't care about the country
well that's a good you know interesting
theory it's gonna be interesting to see
what happens with the banks
to see whether we have any widespread
failures like we do the SML industry you
know the Mafia has existed for a long
time human greed has existed for a long
time and now it seems that all of this
has infiltrated our government if the
press isn't there to protect us and
Congress isn't there to protect us and
the Justice Department isn't there what
is happening to democracy and how in the
world can we turn it around well you
know it's hard to believe that after
I've researched this book I really don't
think that there's democracy in this
country I don't know what it is we've
got maybe an aristocracy or something
like that but we don't have democracy
that's the public you know they're the
founding fathers knew that the people
had to have information to be able to
govern themselves and without failing
that's the fundamental thing that
distinguishes a democracy from anything
else that the people know what's going
on and they can then control their
government and unless we know what's
going on we can't control our government
and we don't have a democracy and you
know I'm not too optimistic that that
we're gonna get back to that situation
you know because the press has become
more and more corporate dominated big
corporations owned you know the big
media outlets they're not interested in
in telling letting the people you know
what's going on Congress isn't
interested in letting you know that the
executive branch is not interested
there's no special interest groups out
there fighting to get information to the
public and it's a very pessimistic
situation and you know the thing is that
if if things get out of too much you
know out of control where the people are
really being beaten on and you can see
that happening now
the economy I mean the hundreds of
thousands of the manufacturing jobs that
we're losing or just I mean it's sucking
the blood Morrow this country and you
know it's just ripe for revolution I
mean it you know I mean people in this
country probably just takes so much and
it's not a it's not a good situation
yeah I don't I don't trust the sort of
the charitable instincts of our
aristocracy to just sort of you know
hold back on their greed do you think
that this turn over this is some suppose
a turnover that's gonna happen in
Congress after these elections is that
gonna stir anything up do you think well
I think that's that's one thing that I
really should have said that there is
might be some ways to to change things
and that's to get rid of Congress I mean
Congress is a big big problem and that's
one thing you know Bush is right about
that but he's riding the rope for the
wrong reasons Congress is just they're
not protecting the the public interest
anymore I mean they're all dominated by
special interest and and they've all got
their own little constituency and that's
one way you know if we if we got rid of
everybody in Congress things might
change I mean that the people that take
their place can see what's gonna happen
this happened in Texas back in the early
seventies with the Sharpe's town scandal
and there were a lot of new Congress new
Texas legislators that came in and they
passed a lot of liberal open records and
open meetings laws but we're starting
back to business as usual now I mean it
didn't last very long and you know you
have I mean you have to be vigilant
about it I mean maybe term limitation is
is one of the answers
[Applause]
Pete Boonton if the Congress had the
will could our government recover any of
this money that you're talking about any
of the kinetic and the money be returned
to the US people yes I think so
particularly anyone who's been convicted
any money they got can be we can go
after that and Justice Department should
and get it back the question is what
about all the money like the money paid
to st. Joe Paper Company what about the
money to adnan khashoggi
what about the money - walter measures
banks can we get in that bag I think if
if you would have to prove fraud if you
could prove fraud prove it that the
money was fraudulently conveyed then you
could get it back and that's that's the
main hurdle proving problem once you do
that then yes and get the money back so
it is possible yes it is possible to
track it I mean the Justice Department
has said many times that we can't track
the monies to ours too complicated goes
offshore you know goes to the Caymans
and I'll Jersey Switzerland we you know
but you know that's not true they can
track it all it takes is Willie and they
prove they could track it in a in a drug
operation called Operation polar camp
where they tracked cash money from the
United States going to Medellin Cartel
going down to Panama and then coming
back to the United States and that's
much harder to track in S&L money where
it's all in a paper or computer
transactions so it all had to do with
their their will yes they wanted to get
Noriega in that case in this case what
happened to Neil Bush when he was he was
actually found guilty of illegal illegal
activity what kind of financial burden
did he suffer
well they settled a case where he was
accused of you know violating the rules
regulations and he got slapped on the
wrist promised not to do it again I what
did I ask you recently Michael wise the
president of Silverado was in fact
indicted on felony charges Neil Bush
hasn't all been
ancient in relation to that case would
you suppose he might be liable that they
might be investigating him they should
be investigating him I mean Michael wise
is the first indictment we've had a
Silverado after all these years the
first one and you know Neil Bush is is a
thar should be a target of a grand jury
investigation as to you know what he
approved why you prove it how he
benefited those are all questions that a
grand jury federal grand jury should be
extremely interested in knowing I
haven't asked you you're you know very
inclined to liking lawyers you've been
abused in your work at the Houston post
you're in law school now wine is I'm
into the Buse no seriously I mean I
found I needed it for my job that I was
it was another Stonewall to doing my job
not knowing the law not being able to
argue with lawyers was a stone wall in
my jaw I needed to be able do that to do
my job well and that's one of the
reasons I'm here so are you gonna go
back to journalist oh yeah do you have
any office at the moment no but I'm not
looking for him oh yeah I want to write
another book